SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019. 
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement (NFS) prepared in accordance with Italian Legislative Decree 254/16_year 2019. 
WE EMPOWER SUSTAINABLE PROGRESS.
OPEN POWER FOR A BRIGHTER FUTURE.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019. 
Consolidated Non-Financial Statement (NFS) prepared in accordance with Italian Legislative Decree 254/16_year 2019


P V. 
P
Positioning Open Power. 
M
Purpose Open Power for a brighter future. We empower sustainable progress.
Mission • Open access to electricity for more people. • Open the world of energy to new technology. • Open up to new uses of energy.. • Open up to new ways of managing energy for people. • Open up to new partnerships.
Enel is Open Power. 
Sustainability Report 2019


V. 
C P. 
V
Principles of conduct • Make decisions in daily activities and take responsibility for them. • Share information, being willing to collaborate and open to the contribution of others. • Follow through with commitments, pursuing activities with determination and passion. • Change priorities rapidly if the situation evolves. • Get results by aiming for excellence. • Adopt and promote safe behavior and move pro-actively to improve conditions for health, safety and well-being. • Work for the integration of all, recognizing and leveraging individual diversity (culture, gender, age, disabilities, personality etc.). • Work focusing on satisfying customers and/or co-workers, acting effectively and rapidly. • Propose new solution and do not give up when faced with obstacles or failure • Recognize merit in co-workers and give feedback that can improve their contribution. 
Vision Open Power to tackle some of the world’s biggest challenges.
Values. 
Trust. 
Proactivity. 
Responsibility. 
Innovation


The future: from vision to action. 
Sustainability Report 2019


Climate change, global population growth, technological acceleration and shifting geopolitical balances are among the main forces that are shaping the ongoing watershed moment. Today’s scenario has been made even more complex by the recent outbreak of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic in various parts of the world. In response to this emergency, we have acted promptly and with determination to reduce the risk of contagion to a minimum, while ensuring continuity of the service we provide and the security of the power system in all the countries we operate in. These concrete actions, supported by technology and innovation, allow us to bring the best of our experiences to bear in different contexts and to adopt the most effective solutions rapidly and uniformly, thereby ensuring that the orderly performance of our work in service of communities remains sustainable, even in such adverse conditions. Sustainability is a driving force that helps us tackle challenges and work together to forge a new model of development that leaves no one behind. To Enel, this is a commitment that we have sought to instill into our purpose: “Open Power for a brighter future. We empower sustainable progress”. We wish to contribute to a world in which energy is always at the service of the community to drive development, growth and a higher quality of life for all. We are convinced that, in order to generate lasting profit, value must be shared within the entire community around us. This is why we have prioritized addressing climate change, a just energy transition and continually ethical, transparent relations with all our stakeholders. In our vision, progress springs from ideas and co-creation and is nourished by values such as trust, responsibility, proactivity and innovation. With this in mind, in 2015 we revolutionized our growth model, adopting a strategy that puts sustainability at the centre of the value chain, makes digitalization a key element at all levels and in all processes within the Company and sees renewable energy as the driver of growth. Our 2019 results clearly reflect the steps taken and the Company’s profound transformation. Today we are leaders in all the main areas of the energy transition and a global operator in over 30 countries with approximately 70 million customers, 2.2 million km of grids and 46 GW of managed1 renewable capacity. Another milestone we reached in 2019 is that, for the first time, installed capacity from renewables exceeded that of thermoelectric sources. We are a more efficient and remunerative company, with a stronger ability to adapt rapidly to change and innovate, including with financial instruments, where we launched the world’s first bonds directly linked to the UN sustainability goals (SDG-linked bonds). A commitment that will continue into the 2020-2022 period, contributing to the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. We are preparing our grid infrastructure and customer management processes to best meet the challenges of the future by investing in the digital transformation. Having completed the migration of all IT services to the cloud is a crucial step towards developing platform-based business models that will help us 1 In addition to installed capacity, this includes capacity attributable to associates and joint ventures (approximately 3.7 GW).
support electrification of consumption, sustain the fight against climate change while ensuring a constant supply of sustainable, accessible energy. This migration of IT services to the cloud allows us to face the pandemic with flexible, remote working methods that minimize the risk of contagion, without an adverse effect on operations. We also remain committed to developing a business model in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement to keep the average increase in global temperature below 2 °C above pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit this increase to 1.5 °C. We have therefore set a new objective for 2030, which envisages a 70% reduction of CO2 emissions per kWh compared to 2017 levels, as certified by the SBTi (Science-Based Targets initiative), a global initiative that validates company decarbonization strategies. A significant step towards achieving the goal of full decarbonization of our generation capacity by 2050, supported by investments in renewables’ growth and in the progressive reduction of power generated from thermoelectric sources. The centrality of individuals and communities, a sustainable supply chain, sound governance, occupational health and safety and a focus on the environment reinforce and complete the Group’s sustainability strategy. Thanks to the energy, know-how and common vision of Enel’s people, we are capable of managing the constantly evolving complexities, while maintaining our commitments to the market. In an era of change, the transition needs to be just, and for this to occur, the priority must be supporting individuals by promoting training and the development of skills, diversity and inclusion. With upskilling and reskilling programs, we are able to advance existing skillsets, while also helping talented and capable individuals grow, by creating new roles to meet the needs of ceaseless technological progress and innovation processes. Training increasingly becomes a partner in the growth of all individuals, stimulating ambition, self-study and a proactive spirit, while also sharing a wealth of knowledge, attitudes and passions. Adopting a sustainable strategy and business model that are centered on innovation and circularity allows us to face the climate emergency and guarantee growth in a context of limited resources, while ensuring social inclusion and cohesion and promoting a perfect alignment of values, the economy and finance. Therefore, making it possible to achieve lasting, shared success, navigating the discontinuities we are experiencing this year and creating new development opportunities, not only for individuals but also for society as a whole.
Patrizia Grieco Chairman of the Board of Directors. 
Francesco Starace Chief Executive Officer and General Manager 102-14. 
Letter to stakeholders


Sustainable business model 8. 
Sustainability governance 12. 
Definition of priorities 14 2020-2022 Sustainability Plan 20. 
Enel’s action to combat 24 climate change. 
People centricity 26. 
Energy of the circular economy 28. 
The value of sustainability 30. 
Sustainability Report 2019. 
At a Glance 1.
Letter to stakeholders 4. 
The pillars of the sustainable business model. 
Energy transition 34 - Commitment to the fight 34 against climate change - Infrastructure, ecosystems 74 and platforms. 
People centricity 90 - Our people and their value 90 - Communities and value sharing 106. 
Innovation and digitalization 124


Methodological note 236 2. 3. 4.
ESG backbones. 
Methodological note. 
Green Bond Report & Appendix. 
Occupational health and safety 142. 
Sustainable supply chain 152. 
Environmental sustainability 166. 
Sound governance 192. 
Green Bond Report 256. 
Appendix 273 - Performance indicators 275 - GRI Content Index 325


84.3 GW net installed capacity 50% net installed renewable capacity(1) 229.1 TWh net electricity generation 296 g/kWheq specific CO2 emissions 110 MW storage(2) 6.3 GW of demand response 79.6 thousand charging points 80.3 billion euros of revenue 17.7 billion EBITDA 68,253 Enel people 153,116 contractor company people (FTE) 0.15 combined frequency rate (LTIFR)(3) for Enel people and contractors. 
Enel X enables the energy transition by acting as an accelerator for the electrification and decarbonization of customers, helping them use energy more efficiently, leveraging also the Group assets by offering innovative services.
G l
o b
a l. 
The new Global Power Generation (GPG), set up in 2019, plays a key role in accelerating energy transition, managing decarbonization of the generation mix and continuing to increase investments in renewable capacity.
Gl ob al. 
Po we r. 
Ge ne ra ti on. 
En el. 
X 10.8% SRI investors in share capital 33% women on the Enel SpA Board of Directors. 
The Enel Group is present in more than 30. 
Countries in five continents, with installed capacity of 84.3 GW and generation of 229.1 TWh. is equipped with a business model that promotes the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals and where each Country acts in the area of competence from a matrix perspec- tive with respect to the Business Lines. 
Sustainable business model 2019 results 1 The percentage of net installed renewable capacity denotes the proportion (in percentage terms) of installed capacity of renewable energy in relation to the total installed capacity.
8 Sustainability Report 2019 102-2 102-4 102-5 102-6 102-7 102-15 305-4 405-1 EU1 EU2 EU3 EU4 EU18


2.2 million km of network 73.3 million end users 44.7 million end users with active smart meters 69.9 million customers 5.9 million gas customers 64.0 million electricity customers 301.7 TWh electricity sold 1.3 thousand hectares areas covered by biodiversity projects 0.33 l/kWheq specific water requirements for total generation. 
Engaging local communities (2015-2019): 1.3 mil beneficiaries quality education 7.9 mil beneficiaries affordable and clean energy 2.1 mil beneficiaries decent work and economic growth. 
T r
a d
i n
g. 
Re ta il. 
Gl ob al. 
I nf ra st ru ct ur e
&
Ne tw or ks. 
Global Infrastructure and Networks (G I&N) has the mission of guaranteeing reliability in the supply of energy and the community service quality via resilient and flexible networks, leveraging efficiency, technology and digital innovation.
Through sale to end customers (Retail), Enel interacts locally with millions of families, industries, and companies. The technological lever and the development of a platform model make it possible to improve customer satisfaction and customer experience.
(Global Power Generation, Global Infra- structure & Networks, Enel X, Retail, and. 
Global Trading), managing activities such as relationships with the area, regulatory matters, the reference retail market and local communications. The Global Service. 
Functions (Procurement and Digital Solu- tions) and the Holding Functions (Admin- istration, Finance and Control, People and. 
Organization, Communications, Legal and. 
Corporate Affairs, Audits, Innovability) are present in a supporting role.
Sustainability Report Performance indicators. 
Annual Report 2 Includes the contribution of Global Power Generation. 3 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate.
A T A G L A N C E 9


The transformation underway leads to structural changes in various industrial sectors, leading to the opening up of new markets and business opportunities, but also to the need to renew consolidated models and rethink the ways that availa- ble resources are being used. The results achieved by Enel in recent years attest to the soundness and sustainability of a business model that is capable of creating value for all stakeholders and supporting the accomplishment of the UN Sustainable Development. 
Goals. 2019 was a key year in relation to the decarbonization strategy, with the construction of over 3,000 MW of renewable capacity, the continuation of the coal power plants decommissioning plan, generation from renewable sourc- es surpassing the output from thermal generation, and specific CO2 emissions from total net production totalling 296 g/kWheq. The new Global Power Gen- eration Business Line, which integrates renewable capacity with thermal gen- eration, was created to further support and accelerate this process. Users with smart meters number 44.7 million, and the Group has a total of 70 million end users, thus confirming Enel’s positive positioning, especially in developed countries in which a process of ener- gy markets liberalisation is in progress.
Company people, totalling 68,253 in the various Group countries and regions, constitute the strategic lever to manage the energy transition process. Our staff are offered specific upskilling and reskill- ing programmes as well as tailored train- ing initiatives are offered to Enel people to boost digital skills. The combined in- juries frequency rate (Enel people and contractors) confirmed the downward trend of prior years (0.73 in 2019 vs 0.90 in 2018). Projects with local communities remained in place, aimed at promoting access to energy, high-quality educa- tion, and socio-economic development.
Important results were achieved also in terms of environmental sustainability and in the sphere of vendor relations.
Finally, the principles of innovation, dig- italization and the circular economy were infused throughout all processes in the value chain.
Thanks to the Group’s diversification of countries and regions, the integrated business model throughout the value chain, a solid financial structure, and the level of digitalization achieved, Enel guar- antees the continuity of its operating as- sets with the same level of service, in relation to the emergency caused by the spread of Coronavirus (Covid-19), also in support of the countries in which it oper- ates. Smart working was rapidly imple- mented for around 50% of Enel people, protecting health and guaranteeing busi- ness continuity, and a dedicated task force has been set up to monitor the phenom- ena, determine any appropriate actions, and share its experience gained with the various countries. To accommodate work requirements and assist smart working staff with their remote collaboration, a daily contents bulletin has been set up on the Enel intranet with coaching “pills”, ad- vice and recommendations on how to use the IT tools and resources to their best ad- vantage, plus tutorials dedicated to health of individuals and their families. From the operational standpoint, the majority of as- sets are digitalized and are remote control compatible, as are customer operations and communication channels. This digi- talization process, which started in 2015, now means that Enel’s people and assets are perfectly positioned to face with the current global crisis.
By exploiting synergies between the various business areas, taking actions by leveraging innovation, and implementing. 
Open Power behaviours, the Enel Group seeks solutions to reduce environmental impact and meet the requirements of customers and the local communities in which it operates, with a commitment to guaranteeing high safety standards for employees and vendors alike. Enel is thus able to take on the new challenges of the energy transition process, not sim- ply by reacting to risks, but by embracing all the opportunities without leaving an- yone behind. A clear, defined and long- term strategic vision, and day-to-day ac- tions based on the concept of openness and the inviolable synthesis between innovation and sustainability. Inner and outer openness towards the interior and towards the exterior is achieved through the creation of innovative and cross-sec- tor partnerships that call for the develop- ment of new modes of engagement to guarantee a lasting relationship and firm positioning in an increasingly unstruc- tured scenario. This approach will lead to the interception and interpretation of the faint signals today that will become the trends of tomorrow.
A key element of the outlined approach is the adoption of ESG (Environmental, So- cial and Governance) sustainability indi- cators throughout the entire value chain, not merely for the assessment of the re- sults achieved, but above all to anticipate decisions and develop a proactive out- look. Enel has an ongoing commitment to the management and measurement of its performance in terms of all relevant aspects, addressing economic, business and ESG issues in reporting its operations and defining the objectives underpinning its strategy. This model is fully in line with the requirements of the UN Global Com- pact – of which Enel has been an active member since 2004 – which stress the importance of ever-increasing integration of sustainability throughout all corporate strategies. The Enel Chief Executive Of- ficer is a member of the Global Compact. 
Board of Directors.
10 Sustainability Report 2019


A T A G L A N C E 11. 
GRI Community 2019. 
Enel’s purpose: “Open Power for a brighter future. We empower sustainable progress”.


Sustainability governance. 
Over the past few years Enel has pursued a specific governance structure based on international best practices and permeat- ing corporate, decisional, and operative processes throughout the entire value chain. Integration of environmental, social and governance factors is guaranteed by means of structured processes involving: sustainability context analysis, identifica- tion of priorities for the Company and its stakeholders, sustainability planning, ex- ecution of specific actions, and reporting and management of ESG ratings and sus- tainability indices.
> The Board of Directors examines and approves the strategic, industrial and financial plans, including the an- nual budget and the Group Business. 
Plan, which incorporate the principal guidelines to promote a sustainable business model and lay the basis for long-term value creation. The Board is responsible for approving the Sus- tainability Report, which constitutes the Consolidated Non-Financial State- ment (NFS) pursuant to Legislative. 
Decree no. 254/16, after consulting the Control and Risks Committee and the Corporate Governance and Sus- tainability Committee.
> Among other aspects, the Corporate. 
Governance and Sustainability. 
Committee monitors the sustaina- bility topics linked to the pursuit of operating activities and interaction between the Company and its stake- holders; examines the guidelines of the Sustainability Plan and the meth- ods of implementation of the sustain-
Sustainability Report Sound governance Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Report on corporate governance. 
SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT. 
Analysis of ESG trends and main risks.
Integration of environmental, social and governance factors (#ESG) in company management 1. 
REPORTING. 
Reporting and communication of. 
ESG performance, in line with the reference standards.
5. 
ESG RATING AND. 
SUSTAINABILITY. 
INDICES. 
Assessment of. 
Enel’s ESG performance.
Integration of ESG factors in company management 12 Sustainability Report 2019 102-29 102-32 102-20 102-18 102-19 102-26


located in the various countries and. 
Business Lines. Each country or re- gion identifies the requirements of lo- cal stakeholders, defining the sustain- ability strategy accordingly, adapting. 
Group guidelines to match the needs of the local area. In the framework of the Holding Innovability Function, the. 
Sustainability Planning and Perfor- mance Management unit, responsible for managing the sustainability plan- ning, monitoring and reporting pro- cesses, and for the management of. 
ESG ratings and sustainability indices, also reports to the Group CFO in order to guarantee ever greater integration of these issues in corporate strategies and reporting.
> The global Business Lines, coun- tries, global service Functions and. 
Holding Functions incorporate ESG factors in their decision and operation- al processes to generate sustainable value in the long term.
of the Committee for Corporate. 
Governance and Sustainability, per- forms a proactive role in the pro- cess of approval and supervision of the sustainability strategy.
> The Chief Executive Officer and. 
General Manager is responsible for defining and implementing a sustain- able business model, defining the guidelines for management of the energy transition, promoting zero-car- bon emission energy generation and corporate practices that award con- sideration to the needs of the various stakeholders.
> The Innovability Function (Innova- tion and Sustainability), which re- ports directly to the Chief Executive. 
Officer, manages all activities from the perspective of sustainability and innovation. The Holding units respon- sible for Enel SpA’s operations play a role of guidance and coordination for the Sustainability and Innovation units ability policy; monitors Enel’s ranking in the main sustainability ratings; ex- amines the layout of the Sustainability. 
Report and articulation of the related contents, and also completeness and transparency of the disclosures sup- plied by the documents in question; examines the main company proce- dures rules and procedures of signif- icance in relation to stakeholders.
> Among other aspects, responsibilities of the Control and Risks Committee include examining Sustainability Report contents of significance in relation to the Internal Control and Risk Manage- ment System, and the main corporate rules and procedures linked to the In- ternal Control and Risk Management. 
System and having a significant impact in relation to stakeholders.
> By coordinating the activities of the. 
Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, who currently also occupies the post of Chairman 2. 
MATERIALITY ANALYSIS. 
Identification of the priority issues for the Group and for stakeholders.
SUSTAINABILITY PLAN. 
Definition of ESG objectives, in line with the UN SDGs, to promote a sustainable business model throughout the entire value chain.
3 4. 
ACTIONS. 
Daily commitment to create sustainable value for all stakeholders, thinking globally and acting locally.
ESG RATING AND. 
SUSTAINABILITY. 
INDICES. 
Assessment of. 
Enel’s ESG performance.
A T A G L A N C E 13


ent methods of communication with markets, businesses, and gov- ernments, in line with the evolution and interaction of AI (artificial intel- ligence), machine learning, increas- ingly widespread sensors, smart devices and new computational in- terfaces; > promote “adaptive” governance that is more open, more flexible and more in line with change.
The new scenarios make it necessary to define new business models, promote different forms of inter-sector collabo- ration, and develop increasingly innova- tive financial instruments.
er-more interchangeable between sectors; > rethink urbanisation, taking ac- count of sustainability challenges such as climate change, chronic diseases, ageing, economic acces- sibility and the technologies that are transforming modes of transport, consumption, and labour; > define a new world of work, in which the methods of preparation for business of the future will be diversified and more dynamic and a new leadership model will emerge; > manage a new relationship with consumers, which will use differ-
Technological acceleration, growth and ageing of the world population, climate change, scarcity of resources, and shift- ing geopolitical balances are among the main forces shaping the watershed mo- ment that the world is currently under- going.
A scenario that has been further compli- cated by the recent spread of the Coro- navirus epidemic (Covid-19) in many parts of the world.
The main trends lead to the need to: > redefine and reinvent the role of companies, characterised by in- creasingly blurred boundaries and skills, resources and know-how ev-
Definition of priorities. 
Sustainability context. 
Main risk types. 
Due to the nature of its business and the associated distribution of countries and regions, the Enel Group is exposed to various types of Environmental, Social and Governance risk (ESG). In identify- ing potential risks the results of the pri- ority analysis were considered together with the risk assessments carried out in the framework of the human rights due diligence process carried out by Enel, and the recommendations of external bodies such as the World Economic Fo- rum (WEF) Global Risk Report 2020 and the results of several highly accredited international ESG rating agencies. The analysis takes account of the assess- ment of the risk perceived by the main external stakeholders, in the absence of checks. Mapping of the risks in question is in line with the approach adopted to identify the main company risks (finan- cial, strategic, governance, operating, digital and compliance), in relation to which continual monitoring is carried out through the Company’s internal au- diting process.
In particular, the main ESG risks identi- fied are as follows.
Environmental dimension: > climate risks: physical risks arising from climate change could cause damage to assets and infrastruc- ture resulting in their enduring un- availability. Moreover, the transition towards a zero-emissions energy model could involve risks arising from normative/regulatory, politi- cal, legal, technological and market changes associated with the fight against climate change; > environmental risks: more re- strictive regulations concerning. 
Sustainability Report Sound governance Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Annual Report Report on corporate governance 14 Sustainability Report 2019 103-2 103-3 201-2 102-11 102-15 102-29 102-30


in consideration of the increasingly voluminous legal regulations con- cerning data protection, non-com- pliance with which can lead to an economic/financial and reputational damage; > compliance risks: possible in- fringements of laws and regulations and the principles set down in the. 
Company’s Compliance Programs could result in exposure to the risk of judicial or administrative penal- ties, economic or financial losses and reputational damage.
Information concerning the specific con- texts addressed by Legislative Decree no. 254/16 concerning human rights and the fight against corruption is given in the dedicated sections of the Sus- tainability Report. The “Principal ESG risks” table of the “Sound governance” chapter shows the Group’s methods of management and mitigation actions, to- gether with a more detailed description of ESG risks.
Business and governance dimension: > risks linked to business conti- nuity: partial or total interruption of operating and/or sales activities could result in exposure to the risk of penalties, losses and reputational damage; > risks connected with cyber at- tacks: the digitalization and tech- nological innovation era results in a growing level of exposure of com- pany assets to ever more frequent and sophisticated cyber attacks; > risks connected with digitaliza- tion, IT effectiveness and service continuity: the Enel Group is per- forming a complete digital trans- formation of the entire value chain, which makes it more exposed to risks associated with operation of. 
IT systems and which could lead to service interruptions or loss of data.
> risks connected with the protec- tion of personal data: the Group’s growth on a global scale in terms of the number of customers and countries and regions implies a nat- ural exposure to risks associated with personal data protection, also environmental protection require companies to implement specific actions to minimise their environ- mental impact. The rising popula- tion and economic growth generate impacts correlated with the scarcity of resources and management of water. There are also existing risks connected to water crises, due to climate change and the level of wa- ter resource exploitation.
Social dimension: > risks linked to human capital: rad- ical transformations of the energy sector call for the presence of new professional profiles and skills. Or- ganisations need to move into line with new agile and flexible busi- ness models, and policies affirming diversity and for management and promotion of talent become key elements for companies that are negotiating the transition and have a widespread presence in countries and regions; > risks linked to occupational health and safety: these risks are due to the execution of operat- ing activities on the Group’s sites through its assets, the identification of which was carried out by analys- ing the main events that have oc- curred in the past three years; > risks linked to local communities engagement: presence in such a vast perimeter of countries and re- gions necessarily calls for the eval- uation of very different scenarios and radical knowledge of each area and the needs of the various stake- holders. In this context, the devel- opment of infrastructural projects could result in criticism or situations of partial acceptance, exposing the. 
Group to reputational and opera- tional risks linked, for example, to delays in execution or even closure of projects.
A T A G L A N C E 15


italization and the spread of new technologies are accelerating the transformation of a large number of sectors. This context offers new opportunities based on the devel- opment of energy solutions that promote sustainability and make it possible to diversity the offering of the products and services the Group proposes to its customers, both in- fluencing the traditional business and promoting the creation of new models. Innovation of products, services or processes is a strategic priority that guarantees the Compa- ny’s long-term success against the background of an increasingly com- petitive and demanding market. In this context, the Group has includ- ed clear and precise objectives in its 2020-2022 Sustainability Plan, aimed at defining and developing new products and services, promot- ing the application of new technol- ogies in the sphere of energy effi- ciency, electric mobility, storage and other sustainable energy solutions.
> Sound governance and fair cor- porate conduct – Enel has estab- lished a system of rules, models and control mechanisms inspired by the highest standards of transparency and fairness in management of the business, both internally and exter- nally. This model generates trust among stakeholders, an aspect that is reflected also in the economic re- sults and in positioning in the prin- cipal ESG ratings and sustainability indices.
The methodology employed was devel- oped taking into account the guidelines of several international standards, includ- ing the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI),
SASB (Sustainability Accounting Stand- ards Board), standard AA1000APS and the SDG Compass, which supports com- panies in adapting their strategies to com- ply with the UN Sustainable Development. 
Goals (SDGs). Specifically, the issues sub- ject to analysis cover all 17 SDGs.
The issues, classified in categories of business and governance issues, social issues and environmental issues, were assessed in 2019 based on the priorities assigned by stakeholders (horizontal axis of the matrix) and by the Company (verti- cal axis of the matrix). The overall Group matrix considers the contributions of the main companies involved in the process, based on their relevance with respect to the type of business in which they op- erate. Below, some of the main material issues are shown, highlighting their relat- ed motivations and main impacts.
> Occupational health and safety –
Enel considers people’s health, safe- ty and psychological and physical well-being one of the main priorities of the Group. Optimal management of this issue contributes to generate trust and boost the commitment of people in relation to the Group and the work they perform, also helping to improve performance, raise pro- ductivity and reduce labour cost. In confirmation of the constant com- mitment assumed by Enel in relation to safety, the total combined injury. 
Frequency Rate (FR) in 2019 for Enel people and contractors was down by 18% compared to 2018.
> Ecosystems and platforms – Dig-
The analysis of priorities (“materiality analysis”) makes it possible to identify and assess material issues for stakehold- ers, weighted on the basis of their rele- vance, correlating them with the Group’s priorities and with the business strate- gy, considering impacts generated and suffered, in order to check their “align- ment” (or “misalignment”) and identify areas of possible improvement.
The result of this analysis is shown in the priorities matrix (or materiality ma- trix) and it supports the identification and definition of issues for preparation of the. 
Sustainability Report and the objectives to include in the Strategic Plan and in the. 
Sustainability Plan, the accomplishment of which is guaranteed by contributions from the various Group Functions and. 
Business Lines. The materiality analysis is brought to the attention of the Corpo- rate Governance and Sustainability Com- mittee at the time of the Sustainability. 
Plan guidelines review. Moreover, the. 
Corporate Governance and Sustainabili- ty Committee and the Control and Risks. 
Committee issue preventive opinions concerning the Sustainability Report, which includes the materiality analysis, and submit them to the Board of Direc- tors in its meeting convened to approve the Report.
The process allows to identify not only the priorities for the entire Group, but also for single countries, down to the level of detail of Business Line/Business. 
Function and individual assets (meaning potential or actual operating sites).
Materiality analysis. 
Sustainability Report Methodological note 102-47 103-1 102-15 102-40 102-44 16 Sustainability Report 2019


Priorities in corporate strategies. 
HIGH. 
HIGH LOW Priorities assigned by stakeholder 1
3 5
3 5. 
Matrice delle priorità 2019. 
H
BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE ISSUES. 
A Energy distribution. 
B Decarbonization of the energy mix. 
C Customer focus. 
D Ecosystems and platforms1. 
E Sound governance and fair corporate conduct. 
F Economic and financial value creation. 
N Innovation and digital trasformation. 
SOCIAL ISSUES. 
G Engaging local communities. 
H People management, development and motivation. 
I Occupational health and safety. 
L Sustainable supply chain. 
Global Power Generation. 
Global Infrastructure & Networks. 
Retail. 
Enel X. 
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES. 
B Decarbonization of the energy mix. 
M Environmental management. 
L
D. 
C A. 
B M. 
N
G. 
E
F. 
I 1 Includes the following issues: “New technologies and solutions for homes and condominiums”; “New technologies and solutions for cities”; “New technologies and solutions for Industries”; “Electric mobility”.
2019 materiality matrix. 
A T A G L A N C E 17


> Economic and financial value cre- ation – The creation of economic value is essential for the Group’s enduring survival and its long-term sustainability. In this context, the. 
Company’s financial performance is among the material issues for both stakeholders and the Group. In 2019, Enel posted a gross operat- ing margin of 17.7 billion euros and distributed a minimum dividend per share of 0.33 euros, representing an increase with respect to 2018.
> Decarbonization of the energy mix – The fight against climate change has become one of the key challenges facing companies. In particular, in the utilities sector this has led to the development of regu- lations and public policies aimed at promoting a global zero emissions economy, in which electrification of the energy demand plays a key role.
Institutional investors are devoting ever greater attention to the man- agement and results of companies in relation to climate change. In this context, Enel has defined specific objectives to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG), focusing on growth of renewable capacity and gradual closure of coal pow- er plants. Details of the goals and actions implemented are shown in the sections dedicated to Enel’s commitment to combating climate change in the Sustainability Report.
18 Sustainability Report 2019


Medium priority High priority Very high priority. 
Issues. 
Suppliers and contractors. 
Our people. 
Media. 
Civil society and local communities. 
Institutions. 
Financial community. 
Business community. 
Customers. 
Stakeholders. 
Engaging local communities. 
Economic and financial value creation. 
Sound governance and fair corporate conduct. 
Innovation and digital trasformation. 
Decarbonization of the energy mix. 
Environmental management. 
People management, development and motivation. 
Occupational health and safety. 
Sustainable supply chain. 
Ecosystems and platforms. 
Customer focus. 
Energy distribution. 
The priorities assigned by the stakeholders. 
In 2019 Enel carried out several initia- tives aimed at engaging the Group’s sig- nificant stakeholders, namely companies and trade associations, customers, the financial community, national and inter- 102-47 103-1 102-40 102-43 national institutions, civil society and lo- cal communities, the media, employees, vendors and contractors. On the basis of the results of these initiatives, the priori- ties assigned by the different categories of stakeholders to the assessed issues were identified. Enel responds to these issues through the Sustainability Report, supplying information concerning the main activities and projects carried out in the year. Moreover, Enel integrates the results in question into the planning pro- cess, setting targets and actions aimed at continual improvement of its perfor- mance in order to respond successfully to its stakeholders’ expectations.
A T A G L A N C E 19


million second generation smart me- ters installed.
The energy transition will be supported also by the development of new servic- es, including an increase in the demand response (10.1 GW in 2022), installa- tion of 736 thousand public and pri- vate charging points for electric ve- hicles within the reference three-year period, and the development of other electrification services.
In the period 2020-2022, Enel will also continue to adopt a platform-based model primarily in networks, in retail and in Enel X. In networks the use of a global platform allows the standardisa- tion of management and maintenance, of customer administration processes, and of resources and systems allo- cation. Enel is engaged in the retail in the construction and management of a model based on products and services rather than on local markets, to aid inno- vation and efficiency in all countries and regions. Enel X adopts the “by design” platform model and develops innovative products and services, also by way of its partners.
The people centricity, a sustainable supply chain, sound governance, oc- cupational health and safety and a focus on the environment strengthen and complete the Group’s sustainability strategy, thus contributing to the ac- complishment of all 17 of the sustaina- ble development goals.
A high level of attention is devoted to the people working in the Company, deemed to be key factors of the strate- of around 74% compared to 2018. At the same time, the proportion of re- newables versus total capacity should reach 60% in three years, guiding the increase in profitability of generation as- sets and increasing zero CO2 emission generation to 68% by 2022. In the drive to achieve complete decarbonization by 2050, Enel has created a roadmap with interim objectives, certified by the. 
Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), with a projected reduction of 70% in direct greenhouse gas emissions per kWh in 2030 with respect to 2017 levels, unto reaching 125 g/kWheq 1. A commitment was also made to reduce. 
Enel’s indirect emissions associated with the sale of natural gas on the retail market by 16% within 2030 compared to the 2017 values.
The Plan calls for specific investments dedicated to the electrification of con- sumption, promoting growth of the customer base, and constant increases in efficiency supported by the creation of global business platforms.
In consideration of the important role of smart infrastructure in a world of completely decarbonized energy, the. 
Plan aims to make the network ever more flexible and resilient, by means of investments in digitalization, service quality, and efficiency. The 2022 key ob- jectives include a projected 9% reduc- tion in the System Average Interruption. 
Frequency Index (SAIFI) and around 29 1 The 2022 CO2 emissions target is 220 g/kWheq.
102-15. 
The adoption of a sustainable and inte- grated business model in 2015 has al- lowed Enel to pick up on opportunities in the energy sector linked to global de- carbonization and electrification trends, and to take its place alongside the lead- ers in the energy transition. Thanks to this approach, Enel today is a more sustainable, efficient, and remunerative company, with a significantly lower risk profile and greater capacity to adapt rap- idly to change.
The 2020-2022 strategy focuses on the achievement of the UN Sustainable. 
Development Goals (SDGs) throughout the entire value chain, placing SDG 13 (Action to combat climate change) at the centre. Decarbonization of the en- ergy mix, by accelerating the growth of renewable capacity (SDG 7 - Afforda- ble and clean energy), and the gradual closure of coal plants, combined with electrification of consumption, will be the pillars for the next three-year peri- od. The enabling factors are infrastruc- ture and networks, in line with SDG 9 (Industry, innovation and infrastructure), and also ecosystems and platforms, in line with SDG 11 (Sustainable cities and communities).
From the operational standpoint, a 14.1. 
GW increase in renewable capacity is planned within 2022, reaching around 60 GW of total managed capacity, mainly due to organic growth, with a reduction in global coal generation 2020-2022 Sustainability Plan. 
Sustainability Report. 
Annual Report 20 Sustainability Report 2019


Women in recruitment processes1. 
People2 involved 100% 100% 87% 99%
Performance appraisal 50%
People2 appraised. 
People involved in digital skills 100%
People2 involved. 
Climate survey. 
People2 appraised. 
Increase the number of female managers and middle managers. 
Promote and plan reskilling and upskilling programmes for people in order to support the transition. 
Engaging people we work with 2022 targets 2030 targets. 
Quality education 2.5 mil benefciaries at 20303. 
Affordable and clean energy 10.0 mil benefciaries3. 
Decent work and economic growth 8.0 mil benefciaries3. 
Engaging local communities. 
I N N O V A T I O N 1 Does not include selection processes involving blue collars and USA perimeter as the local legislation to protect the anti-discriminatory practices in phase of recruiting does not allow to monitor this data. 2 Eligible and reachable people having a permanent contract and working in the Group for at least 3 months during 2019. 3 Cumulative targets since 2015.
2020-2022 Sustainability Plan. 
A T A G L A N C E 21


achievement of the goals set down in the 2020-2022 Sustainability Plan. The technological transformation cannot however proceed without paying the utmost level of attention to cyber se- curity, in relation to which the Group confirms its goals of disseminating the most advanced solutions and strength- ening the related verification actions (Ethical Hacking, Vulnerability Assess- ment, etc.), and sensitization actions in relation to the cyber security culture.
By means of a sustainable business model and clear and challenging ob- jectives, Enel seeks to accelerate the energy transition without leaving anyone behind, creating value over the long term for stakeholders of all categories.
work and sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth in the period 2015-2030 (SDG 8).
Clear objectives are also linked to ris- ing levels of attention to occupational health and safety, promotion of a sus- tainable supply chain, an increasingly integrated governance structure and environmental management based on reducing emissions and consump- tion while also promoting biodiversity.
In relation to environmental matters,
Enel is committed to reducing specific emissions of SO2 and NOx by 20302, by 85% and 50% respectively, and reduc- ing particulate levels by 95% compared to the values recorded in 20173.
Innovation, digitalization and dis- semination of a circular economy approach support and accelerate 2 Versus baseline year 2017, the 2022 targets for SO2, NOx and particulate are -80%, -45%, and -90% respectively.
3 Further to the definition of the emissions target at 2030 certified by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), the objectives were recalculated based on 2017 in order to guarantee appropriate levels of consistency and alignment.
gy and of energy transition. In this con- text, Enel promotes the development of upskilling and reskilling programmes aimed at developing existing profes- sional skills and creating new occupa- tional profiles. Clear and precise objec- tives also concern the performance appraisal, the corporate atmosphere and the development of digital skills.
In the matter of diversity and inclusion the commitment to reaching 50% of women involved in selection processes by 2022 is proceeding, plus a new ob- jective aimed at raising the number of female managers and middle managers in the Company.
Enel also continues to promote eco- nomic and social growth of the local communities in which it operates, con- firming and strengthening its specific commitment to the following SDGs: > 2.5 million beneficiaries of quality education in the period 2015-2030 (SDG 4); > 10 million beneficiaries of afforda- ble and clean energy in the period 2015-2030 (SDG 7.1); > 8 million beneficiaries of decent 22 Sustainability Report 2019


Boost. 
Innovation. 
ESG Backbones. 
Environmental sustainability. 
Sound governance. 
Pillars. 
Energy transition. 
Engaging local communities. 
Engaging people we work with. 
Occupational health and safety. 
Sustainable supply chain. 
Enel’s commitment to the SDGs. 
A T A G L A N C E 23


to decarbonization, investments are planned over the next three years in the amount of 14.4 billion euros, the ma- jority of which addressed to higher re- newable capacity, with average annual growth of 4.7 GW, for a total capacity of 14.1 GW. This will bring the proportion of renewables, in terms of total installed capacity, to 60% within 2022. Moreo- ver, a parallel reduction of coal produc- tion of around 74% is planned by 2022, compared to 2018.
In September 2019, Enel announced the new goal of reducing direct emis- sions of greenhouse gases per kWheq by 70% within 2030, compared to 2017, this objective being certified by the. 
SBTi. In confirmation of the constant commitment to this matter, 2019 saw the continuation of the downward trend in CO2 emissions, which allowed Enel to reach the certified objective of 350 g/kWheq established in 2015, in 2020 – one year in advance. In fact, CO2 emis- sions linked to the generation of elec- tricity totalled 296 g/kWheq, hence 20% less than in 2018. In addition, around 55% of electricity generated in 2019 was CO2 free, and the installed renew- able capacity was 42 GW (50% of the total net capacity in 2019). This capacity is increased by the capacity managed via the BSO model (“Build, Sell and Op- erate”) equivalent to 3.7 GW.
Climate change is the main global chal- lenge of the 21st century, and can only be answered via the active engagement of all interested parties, including the private sector. Enel is fully aware of this challenge and has developed a business model aligned with the objectives of the. 
Paris Agreement and achievement of decarbonization of its energy mix with- in 2050. A strategy confirmed in 2019, responding to the UN call to action and signing a pledge to limit the global tem- perature rise to 1.5 °C and to achieve zero emissions by 2050. The transition must also be fair and inclusive for all, promoting far-reaching actions based on climatic, energy-related, environmental, industrial and social aspects.
In order to orient its climate strategy,
Enel has analysed the various climatic scenarios, both physical and transition- al, and identified the main risks and opportunities in the short, medium and long term. In the 2020-2022 Strategic. 
Plan Enel has assumed a commitment to the decarbonization of generation and consumption, simultaneously pursu- ing electrification of end customers to deal with climate change and guarantee affordable and clean energy. Enabling factors for decarbonization and electri- fication are identified in infrastructure and networks, and also ecosystems and platforms. Specifically, with regard. 
Enel’s action to combat climate change 201-2 102-15 103-2 103-3. 
In order to guarantee increased trans- parency in its communications and relationships with stakeholders, Enel periodically reports on its activities in line with the international standards of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and is publicly committed to adopting the recommendations of the Task force on. 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) of the Financial Stability Board, which published specific recommenda- tions for the voluntary reporting of the financial impact of climate risks in June 2017. The Group has also integrated the “Guidelines on reporting climate-related information” published by the European. 
Commission in June 2019, taking into consideration the results of the first work performed by the European Lab. 
Project Task Force on Climate-related. 
Reporting (PTF-CRR), which collects the associated best practices (“How to im- prove climate-related reporting”).
The following table shows the alignment of Enel’s disclosure both with respect to the European directive and with respect to the TCFD, testifying to the Group’s commitment to climate change related disclosures.
24 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Sustainability Report Sound governance Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Annual Report Report on corporate governance


ACTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (LINK: Sustainability Report Commitment to the fight against climate change)
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE TCFD (TASK FORCE ON CLIMATERELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES)
EUROPEAN COMMISSION GUIDELINES ON CLIMATE RELATED INFORMATION. 
Section Subsection. 
Enel’s action against climate change > A just and inclusive transition > Enel and the global climate change context > The stakeholders engagement process -Policies and Due Diligence Process. 
Enel’s impact on climate change -Business Model. 
The Enel governance model to tackle climate change > Competences of corporate bodies in relation to climate change > The Enel organisational model for management of climate-related issues > Incentives system concerning climate change. 
Governance: recommended disclosure a) and b) Policies and Due Diligence Processes. 
Climate scenarios > The physical climate scenario > The transition scenario. 
Strategy: recommended disclosure c) Business Model. 
The strategy to tackle climate change > Decarbonization > Electrification > Enabling infrastructure > Platforms and ecosystems. 
Strategy: recommended disclosure b), c) Business Model. 
Main risks and opportunities linked to climate change > The identification, assessment and management of risks and opportunities > Identification, assessment and management of physical risks and opportunities > Identification, assessment and management of transition-related risks and opportunities. 
Strategy: recommended disclosure a)
Risk Management recommended disclosure a), b), c)
Principal Risks and their management. 
Enel’s performance in the fight against climate change > Direct and indirect GHG (greenhouse gas) emissions > CO2 reduction targets > Financial, operational and environmental metrics > Targets. 
Metrics & Targets: Recommended disclosure a), b), c)
Outcomes; Key Performance Indicators. 
A T A G L A N C E 25


2019, the number of women in recruit- ment pools totalled 42% (39% in 2018).
The quantitative and qualitative perfor- mance appraisal process of the past year involved 100% of eligible and reachable people4, of whom a total of 99%5 were appraised. Conversely, the quantitative assessment was carried out exclusively for the population with variable remu- neration. Finally, the equal remuneration rating (ERR6) related to the managerial population was equal to approximately 84% in 2019.
4 Eligible and reachable: those with an open term contract who were in the workforce and active for at least three months in 2019.
5 Forecast data, since the closure of the assessment process has been postponed to May 2, 2020 due to the Covid-19 crisis.
6 Manager ERR (Equal Remuneration Ratio) = fixed + variable female managers/fixed + variable male managers.
longer required and allowing people to work on new areas of specialisation.
Training is increasingly a partner in the growth of all individuals, stimulat- ing personal initiative, self-learning and a pro-active spirit. In 2019, around 39 train- ing hours per capita were supplied on av- erage, for a total or more than 2.6 million hours. Specifically, 46% of people were involved in activities aimed at strength- ening digital skills. Technical-specialist training programmes in different busi- ness areas were also promoted through the vehicle of schools and academies.
Enel however also focuses on more ex- perientially based training, such as job shadowing, which arises from interaction between individuals with different roles and responsibilities, who open up to new inputs in a scenario of training and recipro- cal sharing of skills and aptitudes.
Openness and listening are core as- pects of the Open Power culture and they constitute the engine of the climate survey conducted by Enel at two-yearly intervals. The 2018 survey focused on topics such as well-being, engagement, and safety. In 2019, action plans were defined and developed for the identified areas of improvement.
The recruitment, hiring, development and performance appraisal processes form the foundation of relations with people within the Company. Enel has made a commitment to guarantee equal representation of both genders in the in- itial stages of its recruitment and hiring processes within 2021. At the end of. 
The energy and competence of people, and a shared vision make it possible to manage ever increasing levels of com- plexity while maintaining commitments assumed with the market. Progress springs from ideas and co-creation, and is fuelled by values such as trust, respon- sibility, proactivity and innovation.
At the end of 2019 Enel people in the various Group countries totalled 68,253 (down by 1,019 vs 2018), of which 44% in Italy, 15% in Iberia, 30% in Latin Amer- ica, 21% women, 12% under 30 years of age, 55% from 30 to 50 and 34% over 50. People with disabilities or persons in protected categories totalled 2,254. The inclusion of this diversity makes it possible to adopt innovative solutions, enhance the contribution of multiple perspectives and have different risk perceptions, effectively generating social and economic value.
In a scenario of transformation, char- acterised by a high level of automa- tion, ever more advanced technological evolution and new technical and pro- fessional profiles, Enel has developed upskilling and reskilling programmes that promote the evolution of talents and skills. In particular, the upskilling programmes are focused on the devel- opment of existing professional compe- tences and adding new skills. Converse- ly, reskilling is aimed at creating new professional profiles, replacing skills that have become obsolete or are no. 
People centricity Our people 405-1 405-2 102-7 401-1 404-1 26 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Sustainability Report Our people and their value. 
Annual Report


these projects is the recourse to around 800 partnerships with organisations, compa- nies, and institutions operating on the local and international level that promote devel- opment of the territory through innovative and tailored interventions.
Sustainability of the strategy is confirmed also by the progress made in terms of the. 
Group’s contribution to achieving the UN. 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), with special reference to projects aimed at guaranteeing inclusive and equitable quality education (SDG 4), offering ac- cess to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy (SDG 7) and promot- ing sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth (SDG 8).
Awareness of the context in which Enel operates and active attention to all stake- holders are essential factors to combine economic and social growth over the long term. Enel adopts a creating shared value. 
Responsible community relations consti- tute a pillar of Enel’s strategy. Constantly and proactively considering the needs and priorities of society makes it possible to accept new challenges and redefine an in- creasingly competitive business model, de- veloping new strategies and innovating in processes, also through scalable solutions.
In 2019, with around 1,800 projects and more than 4 million beneficiaries in the countries in which it is present, Enel made a tangible contribution to development and social and economic growth of local areas: from the expansion of infrastructure to ed- ucation and training programmes, from ini- tiatives aimed at social inclusion to projects designed to support cultural and economic activities. The essential lever to carry out. 
The communities in which we operate. 
Goals Targets Progress. 
Decent work and economic growth 8 million beneficiaries (2015-2030) 2015-2019 1.3 mil 2015 0.1 mil 2016 0.2 mil 2017 0.3 mil 20181 0.4 mil 20191 0.3 mil 2015-2019 2.1 mil 2015 0.4 mil 2016 0.7 mil 2017 0.4 mil 20181 0.3 mil 20191 0.3 mil 2.5 million beneficiaries (2015-2030)
Quality education 20191 1.6 mil. 
Affordable and clean energy 10 million beneficiaries (2015-2030) 2015-2019 7.9 mil 2015 1.5 mil 2016 1.3 mil 2017 1.3 mil 20181 2.2 mil 411-1 413-1 102-42 102-43 102-44 (CSV) model that integrates social-environ- mental factors in the business process- es and throughout the entire value chain, with special reference to operations of business development, engineering and construction, in addition to management and maintenance of assets. The model is composed of six stages that can also be carried out on an individual basis: context analysis, stakeholder identification, anal- ysis of materiality and potential risks/op- portunities, definition of a plan of shared actions, execution of the plan in question, monitoring, assessment and reporting.
1,375 applications of the CSV model7 were executed in 2019 in the various phases of the value chain, with an inclu- sive approach towards stakeholders.
7 An application is construed as the use of at least one CSV instrument in relation to an asset, in any phase of the value chain and in any Business Line.
1 The number of beneficiaries considers the activities and projects carried out in all the areas in which the Group operates. Exclusively for the NFS perimeter (excluding consolidated companies using the equity method, the foundations, the non-profit organizations of the Group, and the companies for which the BSO - Build, Sell and Operate mechanism has been applied) the number of beneficiaries amounted to 0.3 million for SDG 4 (0.2 million in 2018), 1.6 million for SDG 7 (2.1 million in 2018) and 0.2 million for SDG 8 (0.2 million in 2018).
A T A G L A N C E 27. 
Sustainability Report Communities and value sharing. 
Annual Report


actors, in an Open Power perspective. This approach has allowed the development of new business initiatives linked to techno- logical innovation and the development of assets and materials, while also contributing to reducing the Group’s exposure to the use of non-renewable raw materials.
Enel’s vision of the circular economy stands on five pillars that define the related con-
The circular economy is a new paradigm to rethink the current development mod- el, combining innovation, competitiveness and sustainability, and to respond to the big environmental and social questions.
This process, which Enel launched in 2016, has been gradually extended to the entire value chain, developing the collaboration and contribution of various internal and external. 
Energy of the circular economy texts and methods of application.
A lean and diffused governance structure, coordinated by an area at Holding level, has been set up to promote and manage these issues. The Business Lines define and identify the models, products, services and processes in relation to the reference contexts, while the Countries contribute to discussions concerning the topic of circular. 
U se f
ul li fe e
xt en si o
n. 
Pr o
du ct a
s a
s er vi c
e cy cl es. 
N e
w l
if e. 
Ci rc ul ar in p
u ts pl at fo r
m s. 
S ha re d. 
Product as a service Business model in which the customer purchases a service for a limited time, while the company maintains the properties of the product, maximising the utilisation factor and useful life.
Circular inputs Production and use model based on inputs from renewables or from previous life cycles (reuse and recycling).
Useful life extension Approach to the design and management of an asset or product aimed at extending its useful life, e.g. by means of modular design, facilitated repairability, predictive maintenance.
New life cycles All solutions aimed at preserving the value of an asset at the end of its life cycle thanks to reuse, regeneration, upcycling or recycling, in synergy with the other pillars.
Shared platforms Management systems in common among multiple users of products, assets, or skills.
Va lu e. 
Re co ve ry. 
Ci rc ul ar. 
U se. 
Ci rc ul ar. 
D es ig n
28 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Sustainability Report Commitment to the fight against climate change Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms Sustainable supply chain Environmental sustainability


ecosystem of vendors, partners and customers. A process of measure- ment and improvement of circularity of the solutions in the Group’s port- folio has been started with innovative projects through the Circular Economy. 
Boosting Program; > Circular Cities8: for more than two years, a work group that includes the Business Lines, Countries, and various staff areas is exploring chal- lenges and solutions for the cities of tomorrow in the context of the circu- lar economy, to be expressed both in. 
Group activities and in collaboration with stakeholders (institutions, other industrial sectors, etc.); > Country: the Group pursues numer- ous initiatives in the Countries, both with the government and with region- al and local administrations, in addition to the inception of extended collabo- rations on the topic to strengthen the role of the business, and ongoing col- laboration with research centres and associations to disseminate aware- ness of the topic. The main Country activities were started in Italy and then extended to Spain, Chile, Colombia,
Argentina, Brazil, Peru and the US.
8 Enel’s positioning in respect of circular cities is shown in the document “Circular cities. Cities of tomorrow”, which is available at the following link: https://corporate.enel.it/content/dam/enel-it/media/ documenti/circular-cities-cities-of-tomorrow_en.pdf.
> Enel X: measurement of the level of circularity of the products and services offered to customers (in order to pro- vide a tool of comparison for interest- ed end consumers sensitive to envi- ronmental issues) and of the circularity of industrial customers and the public administration.
The circular economy projects that Enel has launched are numerous and can be ar- ranged in the following main areas: > Global Procurement: the project is designed to steer the entire sup- ply chain towards circularity through measurement of the circularity of the products and services purchased by the Group, introduction of K factors to award vendors by means of specific tender instruments for their use in the transition towards a circular economy, and the start of co-innovation projects to review the supply chain from a cir- cular perspective; > Assets (GPG, G I&N): aimed at inte- grating the benefits of electrification in environmental, social and eco- nomic terms, in order to rethink the value chain from a circular perspec- tive in terms of material and energy flows. The circular approach is applied throughout all stages of the life of as- sets, from design to construction, op- eration and up to the end of life; > Customers (Enel X): aimed at acceler- ating circularity, within the Company’s economy and handle relations with institu- tions, other companies (in all sectors) and stakeholders. Synergy between the three areas guarantees Enel’s effort to identify innovative solutions.
Moreover, considering it to be essential to evaluate the success and effectiveness of the circular economy, Enel has developed a circularity measurement model (“Cir- culAbility Model”) that takes account of all five pillars, expressed through specific sub-indicators, namely flow circularity, which considers all components of materials and energy in the input and output phases, and circularity of use, which measures the ma- terials utilisation factor, both through the ex- tension of life expectancy and taking account of the application of sharing and “product- as-a-service” principles. After identifying the metric, the following Business Line-specific approaches were outlined: > Procurement: the supply categories were subjected to a systematic analysis of the entire life cycle (“Life Cycle As- sessment”), to track environmental im- pacts and all material and energy flows during the supply generation process; > Circular Assets: in order to manage. 
Group assets with a circular approach, circularity of the design, construction, operation and end of life phases is measured, making it possible to identi- fy operating initiatives that make it pos- sible to increase the overall process circularity rating;
Alliance for the Circular Economy. 
A circularity-based business model implies the utmost collaboration among all actors involved; that’s why we considered it to be essential to open up to dialogue with parties that share our vision, involving the chains and promoting common initiatives to safeguard natural resources and boost competitiveness of the country. In 2017 Enel launched the Alliance for the Circular. 
Economy and signed a Declaration of Intent with companies in the Made in Italy sector, occupying leading positions in a range of manufacturing sectors. The goal of the Alliance is to guide a global evolution of the manufacturing scenario from a circular per- spective that promotes the unique features of Made in Italy products, focusing on innovation, aiding the sharing of experiences and best practices and stimulating constant dialogue with the entire ecosystem. In 2019, an increasing level of interest for the initiative allowed the Alliance to achieve ever greater participation in terms of the number of companies involved and sectors represented, in such a way as to increase the level of support for the development of circular business models.
A T A G L A N C E 29


The value of sustainability in relation to environmental, social and governance topics that may be of sig- nificance for the financial community.
ESG ratings are therefore deemed to be a strategic tool to support investors and identify risks and opportunities linked to the sustainability in their investment portfolio, aiding the development of ac- tive and passive sustainable investment strategies.
Over the past year, Enel has maintained or improved its score and positioning in the majority of ESG ratings and sustain- ability indices, with several important results achieved, including: > achievement, for the first time, of “AAA” rating (“AA” in 2018), by. 
MSCI ESG Research, the main pro- vider of data and research studies, which measures the performance. 
There is a clear link between sustain- ability and value creation given that, investing in sustainable projects from the environmental and social point of view, companies can maximise profits and minimise risks while simultaneous- ly contributing to the achievement of the SDGs. Socially responsible inves- tors continue to grow in 2019, holding 10.8% of total shares (10.5% in 2018), equivalent to 14.1% of floating capital (13.7% in 2018). Moreover, the Enel in- vestors who have signed the UN Prin- ciples for Responsible Investment (UN. 
PRI) hold 43% of total shares.
ESG analysts and international rating agencies monitor Enel’s sustainability performance constantly. Through the application of different methodologies, analysts assess Group performance of companies on the basis of ESG factors. In particular, Enel is among the top ten utility companies pres- ent; > insertion in the CDP Climate “A-List” (“A-” rating in 2018), con- firming its leadership in the man- agement of risks and opportunities linked to climate change, supported by a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions; > presence, for the first year, in the. 
Bloomberg Gender Equality In- dex, confirming the commitment and performance in the realm of promotion and integration of gen- der diversity throughout the Com- pany’s entire value chain; > presence, for the first time, in the. 
Global 100 Ranking of Corpo-
Enel’s ESG performance in main ESG ratings. 
Enel’s presence in main ESG indices & rankings. 
ESG indices and rankings. 
MSCI SAM ESG Rating ISS ESG CR CDP (Climate) Sustainalytics FTSE Russell (DDD/AAA) (0/100) (0/100) (0/5) (D-/A+) (D-/A+)
Min. 
Max ESG performance. 
ESG Rater. 
Sector average. 
Score scale (min/max)
A-
C 2018. 
AAA 80. 
AA 78 87 85 4.9 4.7. 
BB-
A 2019. 
BBB BBB. 
C C 45 46 2.5 2.7 B C 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019. 
Global 100 (Corporate Knights)
MSCI ESG Universal Index. 
MSCI ESG Focus Indexes 30 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Sustainability Report Sound governance. 
Annual Report Report on corporate governance


rate Knights, achieving the eighth position in the general classification and the second position in the ener- gy sector; > best positioning in the utility sector both in the Dow Jones Sustain-
Enel and sustainable finance. 
Sustainability is an increasingly critical lever for the generation of economic and financial value. Enel has placed three green bonds on the European market with a total value of 3.50 billion euros, respectively in January 2017 (1.25 billion), 2018 (1.25 billion) and 2019 (1 billion). The green bonds issued by Enel Finance International NV are destined for institutional investors and guaranteed by Enel SpA. The issue of green bonds is aimed at financing projects that are functional to the transition to the low carbon economy. For details, refer to the chapter “Green Bond Report”.
In September of 2019 Enel issued the world’s first general purpose SDG-linked bond on the US market and on in- ternational markets, for a total amount of 1.5 billion US dollars, linked to SDG 7 “Affordable and clean energy”. This bond issue, which is the first of its kind and destined to satisfy the Company’s ordinary financial requirements, is linked to the Group’s ability to reach a percentage installed renewable capacity (on a consolidated basis) equal to or higher than 55% of the total consolidated installed capacity, by December 31, 2021. To assure and guarantee the transparency of results, accomplishment of this goal will be subject to specific assurance by the appointed auditor. The interest rate ap- plied will remain fixed until the debenture loan matures in relation to the achievement of the above indicated sustainable objective at December 31, 2021: in the event of failure to accomplish this goal, a step-up mechanism will be applied with an increase of 25 bps of the interest rate, starting from the first interest period following the date of publication of the auditor’s assurance report. After the success of said placement, Enel launched a new SDG-linked bond on the. 
European market for the total amount of 2.5 billion euros. In addition to the objective linked to SDG 7 inserted in the previous issue, a further target linked to SDG 13 “Climate action” was added (emissions of greenhouse gases equal to or lower than 125 gCO2/kWheq within 2030). On both occasions, Enel obtained an average economic benefit of around 15 bps with respect to a potential issue without sustainable characteristics. In addition, in October Enel SpA signed an agreement with UniCredit SpA for the first revolving line of credit linked, as in the case of the above mentioned bond issues, to SDG 7 for the value of 1 billion euros and duration of 5 years. In relation to accomplishment of the target with- in the prescribed date, the line of credit provides a step-up/step-down mechanism that will affect the interest margin if the line is used, or the commission, if the line is not used. Enel has planned to increase the recourse to sustainable sources of borrowings from the 22% of 2019 to 43% in 2022 and to around 77% in 2030.
Enel was recognised by the International Financing Review (IFR) as the ESG Issuer of the year at the time of the 2019. 
IFR Awards, for its commitment to a sustainable strategy that has revolutionised the borrowing market. Moreover, the. 
Group’s five-year SDG-linked bonds, valued at 1.5 billion US dollars, were elected Yankee Bond of 2019.
Since 2017, Enel is also a Member Issuer of Green Bond Principles (GBP) and Social Bond Principles (SBP) at the. 
International Capital Market Association (ICMA), and founding member of the Climate Finance Leadership Initiative (CFLI), the aim of which is to facilitate the private cash flows necessary in the path of mitigation of and adaptation to climate change, as provided for in the Paris Agreement. The Enel CEO is also the sole representative of an Italian company and a global utility provider that adheres to the GISD Alliance, a group of 30 leaders committed to boosting long-term investments for sustainable development and facilitating the alignment of commercial operations, finance and investments with the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. Enel also participates in the Corporate Forum on. 
Sustainable Finance, a network created to aid the development and growth of sustainable finance. Finally, Enel co- chairs the CFO Taskforce for SDGs of the UN Global Compact, which has the long-term objective of defining principles and a roadmap for sustainable business financing.
ability Index World, reaching the fourth position (a gain of two po- sitions compared to 2018), and in the FTSE4Good Index, reaching the second position (two positions more than in 2018).
The other Group companies, namely. 
Endesa, Enel Américas, Enel Chile and. 
Enel Russia, have maintained or im- proved their performance in the major- ity of the ESG rating processes in which they participated in 2019.
Green Bond Report. 
A T A G L A N C E 31


THE PILLARS OF THE SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODEL 1.


34 Sustainability Report 2019. 
SDG ACTIVITIES TARGETS 2019 RESULTS CATEGORIES. 
Reduction of CO2 specific emissions from total net production 230 g/kWheq in 20301 296 gCO2/kWheq 2 Environmental footprint. 
Development of additional renewable capacity and reduction of thermal capacity +11.6 GW additional renewable capacity3 -7 GW thermal capacity +3.6 GW renewable capacity -4.1 GW thermal capacity. 
Industrial growth. 
Environmental management. 
Implementation of environmental international best practices to selected coal plants 340 mil euros of investments for environmental retrofit 145 mil euros Environmental management. 
Electrification, storage and real-time demand response 9.9 GW of demand response 173 MW/year of storage capacity4 6.3 GW of demand response 110 MW of storage capacity5. 
Technologies and digitalization. 
Industrial growth. 
Environmental management. 
Social inclusion > Roll out of fiber optic network in Italy > MBA-PhD training about resilience in the countries where the Group operates > 240 municipalities involved > 600 people involved. 
Initiative being redefined for the 2020-2030 period 204 people involved. 
Environmental management. 
Social inclusion. 
Partnerships 2019 2021 Growth across low-carbon technologies and services Plan. 
Energy transition - Commitment to the fight against climate change (1/2) 102-15 13 7
13 13 9
13 11 17


35. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones 1 Target prior to redefinition and certification by the Science Based Targets initiative, which took place in September 2019. Following this redefinition, the new target for reducing CO2 emissions by 2030 is equal to 125 gCO2/kWheq. 2 The value only considers the consolidated capacity. In relation to the overall value of the capacity managed, CO2 emissions amount to 284 gCO2/kWheq. 3 This includes acquisitions amounting to 0.2 GW and 0.4 GW of managed capacity. 4 Target redefined based on only the scope of Enel X. 5 Includes the contribution of the Global Power Generation Business Line. 6 The target for reducing CO2 emissions by 2030 was redefined and certified by the Science Based Targets initiative in September 2019. Following this redefinition, in 2022 the specific emissions of CO2 will be lower than 220 gCO2/kWheq. 7 Includes managed capacity. 8 Includes nuclear.
2020 2022 Decarbonization Plan. 
SDG ACTIVITIES TARGETS CATEGORIES. 
Reduction of CO2 specific emissions from total net production 125 g/kWheq in 20306 Environmental footprint. 
Development of additional renewable capacity and reduction of thermal capacity +14.1 GW of renewable capacity7 -6.2 GW of thermal capacity8 Industrial growth. 
Environmental management. 
Implementation of environmental international best practices to selected coal plants 187 mil euros of investments for environmental retrofit Environmental management. 
Storage and real-time demand response 10.1 GW of demand response 439 MW of storage Technologies and digitalization. 
Industrial growth. 
Environmental management. 
Social inclusion. 
MBA-PhD training about resilience in the countries where the Group operates 600 people involved Environmental management. 
Social inclusion. 
Partnerships 13 7
13 13 9
13 11 17


36 Sustainability Report 2019. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2021 TARGETS 2019 RESULTS CATEGORIES. 
Methodology finalization for Group’s circular financial metrics and extension to the Business Lines. 
Performed the analysis of the methodology for the Group’s circular EBITDA. 
Circular economy. 
Industrial growth. 
Development of Circular Community activities Created a circular economy community Circular economy. 
Launch of the internal Circular Academy Started the planning of the Circular Academy Circular economy. 
Strengthening of partnerships and collaborations about the circular economy (CE) > Extension of the circular economy alliance > Membership in the Ellen MacArthur Foundation > Members of ICESP1 > Members of the Expert Group Financing Circular Economy > Members of the European Remanufacturing Council > Participation in the WBCSD Factor10 on Policy. 
Circular economy. 
Partnerships. 
New countries involved in the CE strategy 5 new countries 8 new countries involved2 Circular economy. 
Operational efficiency. 
New CE projects launched, inter- and intra-divisions 6 projects 4 new projects launched3 Circular economy. 
Operational efficiency 2019 2021 Growth across low-carbon technologies and services Plan. 
Energy transition - Commitment to the fight against climate change (2/2) 102-15 12 12 12 17 12 12 12


37. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones 1 Italian Circular Economy Stakeholders Platform. 2 The involved countries are Spain, Italy, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Peru, USA and Canada. 3 The started projects relate to “power plant equipment decommissioning”, “circular smart meter”, “end of life wind plant” and the extension of the circular economy in Enel X.
2020 2022 Decarbonization Plan. 
SDG ACTIVITIES/TARGETS CATEGORIES > Development of Circular Community activities > Launch of the Circular Academy > Promotion of the culture and best practices of a circular economy on a Global Business Line, Global Procurement and Country level. 
Circular economy. 
Industrial growth. 
Definition and application, in collaboration with various company areas, of circular economy solutions Circular economy. 
Industrial growth. 
Operational efficiency. 
Creation of an ecosystem committed to the topic of circular economy in the most relevant Countries where the company is present Circular economy. 
Operational efficiency. 
Definition and application of suitable industrial and financial circularity metrics, to support and enhance circular economy activities with the involvement of the relevant business areas. 
Circular economy. 
Industrial growth. 
Strengthening of partnerships and collaborations Circular economy. 
Partnerships 12 17 12 12 12 12


38 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Enel’s action against climate change. 
According to the estimates of the IPCC1 (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate. 
Change), global warming has become a reality. The temperature has increased 1 °C compared with pre-industrial levels and, if it continues to grow at the current rate, the increase will probably reach 1.5 °C between 2030 and 2050. The green- house gas (GHG) emissions have been constantly increasing over the past decade and there is no clear signal that they will peak over the upcoming years. The sci- entific community is asking for urgent action to speed up the transition towards a zero-emissions economy in order to minimise the impact of climate change.
In 2019, the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) pointed out that, if global greenhouse gas emissions are not reduced 7.6% every year between 2020 and 2030, it will not be possible to reach the targets of the Paris Agreement.
In this context, it is essential to promote collaboration between governments, companies, financial institutions and civil society by developing the awareness of the various stakeholders about topics related to climate change. Companies play a fundamental role as they are responsible for the majority of global emissions but, at the same time, they have a unique ability to develop innovative solutions to contribute towards their reduction on a large scale. The electricity sector can work towards reducing emissions related to the energy production and at the same time promote the electrification of the energy demand in order to support the decarbonization of other industries and services. Being aware of this challenge,
Enel has set itself the objective of reaching the decarbonization of its energy mix by 2050, as announced publicly in 2015 when the United Nations launched its sustainable development goals, with particular reference to SDG 13 “Climate 1 The IPCC, founded by UNEP (United Nations Environment Programme) and WMO (World Meteorological Organization) in 1988, is the main international organization for climate change monitoring. The IPCC provides regular assessments of the scientific basis of climate change aimed at supporting governments in the definition of climate policies.
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Sustainability Report At a Glance Sound governance Performance indicators. 
Annual Report Report on corporate governance Remuneration report 296 g/kWheq specific CO2 emissions from total net production 70% reduction in direct CO2 emissions per kWheq (Scope 1) by 2030, in comparison to 2017 (SBTi certified target) 50% renewable net installed capacity 91% EBITDA from low-carbon products, services and technologies 102-15 103-2 103-3 201-2


39. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones action”. Therefore it is committed to developing a business model in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement to maintain the average increase of the global temperature below 2 °C compared with pre-industrial levels and to con- tinue to limit the increase to 1.5 °C. In 2019, the Group re- affirmed this commitment once again by responding to the call to action from the United Nations, being the first Italian company that signed the pledge to limit the rise in global temperatures to 1.5 °C and to achieving zero emissions by 2050. Enel also pledged to set interim quantitative tar- gets in line with the criteria of the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), by which a new target of 70% reduction in its own direct greenhouse gas emissions per kWheq by 2030, as compared with 2017 base year, was announced in. 
September 2019.
Particular attention is placed on the climate change ad- aptation policies in order to increase the resilience of the assets along the entire value change, thereby limiting po- tentially negative impacts and guaranteeing a safe and sus- tainable energy service in all the countries where the Group operates.
In order to guarantee increased transparency in its commu- nications and relationships with its stakeholders, Enel peri- odically reports on its related activities in line with the inter- national standards of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and is publicly committed to adopting the recommenda- tions of the Task force on Climate-related Financial Dis- closures (TCFD) of the Financial Stability Board, which in June 2017 published specific recommendations for the voluntary reporting of the financial impact of climate risks.
The Group has also integrated the “Guidelines on report- ing climate-related information” published by the Euro- pean Commission in June 2019, taking into consideration the results of the first work performed by the European Lab. 
Project Task Force on Climate-related Reporting (PTF CRR), which collects the relative good practices (“How to improve climate-related reporting”).
A zero emissions system in the second half of the current century, as foreseen by the Paris Agreement, will require significant technological, social and economic transfor- mations. For this reason, the transition must also be just, promoting the creation of sustainable and decent jobs.
Therefore the climate action must be accompanied by the promotion of a just and inclusive transition and the crea- tion of sustainable and decent jobs.
A just and inclusive transition. 
Enel is convinced that decarbonization is an opportunity for the entire society, but it is fundamental that the benefits of energy transition are shared, accompanying it with wide- scale measures that support climatic, energy, environmen- tal, industrial and social aspects.
Enel’s commitment to the United Nations. 
In July 2019, Enel’s Chief Executive Officer signed the “just transition” commitment promoted by the United Nations, which commits the Company to guaranteeing that the new jobs will be fair, decent and inclusive. Enel is committed to respecting the following international standards both with- in the company and having them respected by its suppliers: > social dialogue with workers and their trade unions; > respect for worker rights (including those regarding safety) on the basis of the requirements of the Interna- tional Labour Organization - ILO; > social protection, including pensions and health care; > salary guarantee, also those in line with the ILO direc- tives.


40 Sustainability Report 2019. 
In particular, the agreement that was reached during the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in. 
Paris (COP21) marked a fundamental step towards cli- mate action. The conference instituted a shared approach on a global level to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions that cause climate change. This is supported by sound regulatory governance which however still lacks the rules that would permit the redistribution amongst the individ- ual countries of the additional reduction that is necessary to reach the main objective of the agreement. The objec- tive is to maintain the average increase in world tempera- ture well below 2 °C as compared to pre-industrial levels, aiming to limit it to 1.5 °C. COP25 was held in Spain in 2019 with the objective of promoting further progress in the key points of the Paris Agreement, in particular arti- cle 6 regarding international carbon markets. COP25 also concentrated on pushing countries to reinforce their am- bitions in view of the presentation in 2020 of new and updated national action plans for climate change (NDC - Nationally Determined Contribution). Enel and its Span- ish subsidiary Endesa have played a proactive role as a conference sponsor. They convened and participated in various side events and governmental meetings that were held during the conference.
“European Green Deal”
On December 11, 2019, the European Commission pre- sented the “European Green Deal” (EGD), a growth strat- egy that aims to improve the well-being of persons. The. 
European Union intends to achieve net zero emission by 2050, protect human, animal and plant life by reducing pollution, help companies become world leaders in clean products and technology, contribute towards a just and in- clusive transition. On March 4, 2020 the Commission pre- sented the first European legislative proposal regarding climate to transform this political commitment into a legal obligation and stimulate investments. To achieve these objectives, all of the following sectors must act: > energy: decarbonize the energy sector; > construction: restructure buildings, help people re- duce their energy bills and energy use; > industry: support the industry to innovate and become world green economy leaders; > mobility: introduce cleaner, more economic and healthier private and public means of transport.
An assessment of measures to define a more ambitious greenhouse gas emissions reduction target for 2030 is en-
The importance of local actions. 
In Italy Enel manages Futur-e, a project for the requalifica- tion of 23 power plants, with the goal of finding new solu- tions and methods of use based on the criteria of social, environmental and economic sustainability. This activity is in close collaboration with local administrations, companies and communities to develop energy reconversion and the circular economy, while promoting innovation.
In 2019 the project was also extended to the thermoelectric plants in Spain for which decommissioning by the end of 2020 has been announced. In particular, the project relat- ed to the Compostilla power plant involves specific areas of action that range from the active search for employment for directly involved personnel to training for improving the employability of plant personnel and the local community, as well as the promotion of economic, employment and sus- tainability activities in the area of reference.
Awareness and research activities. 
The Just E-volution 2030 study carried out by The Eu- ropean House - Ambrosetti in collaboration with Enel and. 
Fondazione Centro Studi Enel was presented in September 2019. The study used an innovative econometric model to estimate the impact of the energy transition in progress, supported by increasing electrification, digitalization and generation from renewable sources, on industrial produc- tion, employment, air quality in the European Union and in more specifically in Italy, Spain and Romania.
Enel and the global climate change context. 
The policies and regulatory framework on climate change in 2019. 
Conference of the Parties (COP)
The Conference of the Parties (COP) of the United Na- tions Framework Convention on Climate Change meets once a year with all the countries that signed the Kyo- to Protocol and the Paris Agreement, which are the two main international treaties that reflect the global commit- ment to combat climate change.


41. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones visioned: 50-55% less than the current target of 40%. To this end, the European Commission will launch a review of all relevant climate-related policy instruments in order to align them with the new climate targets: in primis the. 
Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) and the possibility of extending it to new sectors, the Energy Taxation Direc- tive and the introduction of a “carbon border adjustment mechanism” for specific sectors aimed at reducing the risk of “carbon leakage” and preserving the competitive- ness of EU industry.
A proposal has been advanced for a new sustainable investment plan that includes a “just transition mecha- nism” and a “just transition fund” aimed at helping vul- nerable regions and sectors that are heavily dependent on fossil fuels and mobilising the funds necessary to achieve the objectives of the European Green Deal.
“Clean Energy for all Europeans” legislative package. 
The “Clean Energy for all Europeans” legislative package, proposed by the European Commission in 2016, laid the foundation necessary for achieving greater integration and regionalisation of markets for electricity, balancing, flexibility services and capacity. Following the inter-insti- tutional agreement reached in 2018, the following regu- lations and directives completing the package were pub- lished in the Official Journal of the European Union on 14. 
June 2019: the Electricity Market Regulation (2019/943), the ACER Regulation (2019/942), the Risk Preparedness. 
Regulation (2019/941) and the Electricity Market Directive (2019/944). The measures entered force on July 4, 2019, with the regulations taking immediate effect, while the directive must be transposed into the law of the various. 
EU countries by December 31, 2020.
The new legislation fosters the integration of the differ- ent technologies and the participation of diverse market operators. It also opens up the possible development of mechanisms to provide long-term signals to investment in decarbonization (e.g. auctions, PPAs) and the adequacy of the electricity system (the capacity market).
Enel’s positioning. 
The European Union’s decision-making and regulatory pro- cesses affect the on-going energy transition, effecting company business models, the behaviours of consumers and individual citizens, with a direct impact on legislative framework implemented on a national level in the countries in which the Group operates. Furthermore, regarding its transnational nature and the current global challenges, the. 
European legislative process is becoming increasingly com- plex and, for that purpose, closer collaboration is required between EU institutions and the other stakeholders.
In this context, Enel decided a few years ago to establish the Europe and Euro-Mediterranean Affairs Function, which monitors relevant topics and represents the Group on a Eu- ropean level in relation to institutions, organisations, asso- ciations and other active parties. A specific unit is dedicat- ed to consolidating and representing the Group’s position on policies regarding climate change, low-carbon emission strategies, international carbon market regulation, the envi- ronment and the safety of procurements. Enel will therefore use this unit to support climate protection and follow the involvement of institutional stakeholders, professional asso- ciations, non-governmental organisations and the academic world. This activity of involving the stakeholders contributes towards the evolution of the European regulatory framework


42 Sustainability Report 2019 towards ambitious climate objectives. Coordination is also guaranteed with the various company areas and the differ- ent countries of the Group in order to ensure that all of the regulatory processes in which the company is asked to par- ticipate, on a European and national level, will be fully in line with Enel’s strategy towards the promotion of a low carbon energy model and the electrification of energy demand.
Enel welcomes the various climate policies and regulatory measures announced and implemented in 2019 in the var- ious geographical areas where it operates, in particular in. 
Europe. For this reason, the company considers the Green. 
New Deal presented by the European Commission as a great opportunity for accelerating the European Union’s path towards a decarbonized and sustainable economy, which in turn will bring business opportunities that are in line with the. 
Group’s strategy and sustainable business model.
During 2019, Enel also actively participated in public consul- tations, meetings, conferences, workshops and events con- cerning the four measures published as part of the Clean. 
Energy Package. It welcomes the recognition of energy ef- ficiency as a key pillar towards the transmission to low car- bon emissions energy and contributes towards establishing a reliable system for increasing the renewables and meeting the challenges of the future electric energy markets in an efficient manner in terms of costs and promoting coopera- tion among Member States. The fixed objectives will stim- ulate Europe’s industrial competitiveness, boost renewable energies, create new jobs, reduce energy bills, contribute towards facing energy poverty and improve air quality.
Enel is also working together with the governments and stakeholders in Europe, Latin America and Africa to devel- op an energy transition roadmap with an open approach, sharing policy design and technical knowledge to contrib- ute towards the implementation of the Paris Agreement.
Their development typically involves four main activities: a) greenhouse gas scenarios for 2050, developing technologi- cal mixes on an economic level and corresponding emission profiles in line with the objectives of decarbonization and the national circumstances; b) greenhouse gas emission scenar- ios for 2030 that identify intermediate objectives in line with the 2050 scenarios and outline the trajectories to follow to reach the long-term decarbonization objectives; c) political recommendations targeted towards creating a political and regulatory context that is favourable for the investments necessary for an efficient energy transition and for reach- ing the 2030 and 2050 objectives; d) dialogues between the concerned parties that enable participation with the institu- tions, the NGOs and other operations in an open exchange regarding the most critical issues to guarantee the success of the energy transitions.
Enel’s position on carbon pricing. 
Enel believes that the “cap and trade” system is the most efficient method for reducing emissions, especially in indus- trialised economies. The definition of an absolute emissions objective guarantees the efficiency in reaching the environ- mental objective, whereas the signal of the price fixed by the market guarantees economic efficiency and minimisation of costs. In general, Enel believes that the institution of a “cap and trade” system that is based on a solid regulatory frame- work guarantees the certainty of long-term climatic objec- tives and permits market mechanisms to determine prices that are coherent with the macroeconomic cycles and with market conditions. Instead, environmental taxation works well for countries with a weaker institutional framework and for sectors with distributed sources of emissions. The de- bate regarding the suitability of “cap and trade” or a carbon tax must be developed from a multitude of prospectives, balancing the cost-effectiveness of policy instruments with technical and political feasibility. The selection of the policy option should also include an evaluation of the sectors that must be covered by the system as well as an assessment of the current policy framework.
Therefore, Enel recognises the role of EU ETS in providing a suitable price signal associated with CO2 emissions in the


43. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
European Union and welcomes the results of the revision of the EU ETS Directive for 2021-2030. The EU ETS makes it possible to utilise the already existing framework harmo- nised on a European level, which guarantees technological neutrality and the uniform treatment of market operators.
To summarise, the EU ETS is the cornerstone of the EU’s climatic policies, which are also supplemented by other pol- icies that permit reaching the climatic objectives while pro- tecting the competitiveness of the EU’s industry system.
Based on these considerations, the Enel Group does not favour the introduction of national carbon taxes (or a car- bon price “floor”) in the EU’s ETS sectors, as this would significantly distort competition within the European single market and increase the overall cost of reaching the desired environmental result.
In areas outside of the European Union (such as Latin Amer- ica), Enel’s assets are increasingly covered by carbon pric- ing schemes, mainly carbon taxes that are transformed into “cap and trade” schemes, both national as well as through regional connections, over the medium-long term.
Action platforms and partnerships for facing climate change 102-12 102-13. 
The Group plays an active role in various sector associations and organisations with the objective of promoting topics regarding energy transition on a national and global level.
Some of the international associations with which Enel collaborated actively in 2019 are listed below (see also the “Sound governance” chapter).
Three Percent Club - The Group joined this platform launched within the Energy Transition Coalition of the UN. 
Climate Action Summit held in September 2019. It is a plat- form of 15 governments, 13 businesses and international organizations committed to help put the world on the nec- essary path to achieve the required improvements to meet the Paris Agreement, driving a 3% annual global increase in energy efficiency.
Climate Finance Leadership Initiative (CFLI) - Enel is a founding partner of the initiative, launched by Michael R.
Bloomberg, inspired by the Secretary-General of the United. 
Nations and aimed to promote private sector investments in response to climate change.
eurelectric - Under the chairmanship of Enel, eurelectric adopted a long-term view of the European electrical sec- tor through which it is committed to reaching a zero carbon emissions electrical energy mix in Europe much earlier than 2050 and to increasing energy efficiency and the electrifica- tion of energy demand in order to mitigate the effects of cli- mate change. Enel’s Chief Executive Officer ended his term as Chairman in June 2019.
Global Sustainable Electricity Partnership (GSEP) - The objective of the partnership is to guide sustainable energy development by electrifying and connecting communities all over the world. Enel will chair the GSEP for the 2019-2020 financial year, with the Enel X CEO acting as the Chairman, and will host the executive meetings, promoting the best electrification practices and encouraging its shareholders to share examples of virtuous active partnerships as the topic of the year.
Wind Europe - The aim of this association, guided by the companies, is to promote national and international policies and initiatives targeted towards reinforcing market develop- ment infrastructures and technologies connected to wind energy, on a European and global level. During 2019, Enel was part of the Board of Directors and, overall, 13 of the 19 work groups and task forces.
Solar Power Europe - This company-led association repre- sents various organisations that play an active role along the entire value chain, with the objective of outlining the regu- latory context and improving business opportunities related to solar energy in Europe. Enel has been widely represented within this association during 2019, by holding the position of Vice-Chairman both for the Board of Directors as well as the Strategic Committee and also by playing an active role in different task forces during the course of the year.
SmartEn - SmartEn is a leading association in the digital and decentralised energy solution sector that concentrates on energy transition through intelligent cooperation among consumer, grid, transmission and generation sectors which all play an equally important role in an integrated energy sys- tem. In 2019, Enel played an active role in the Board of Direc- tors as well as in various work groups that were established to promote sustainable decentralised energy solutions.
E.DSO for Smart Grids - The European Distribution Sys- tem Operators (E.DSO) is the primary interface between distributors and European institutions by promoting large- scale development and the experimentation of technolo- gies for smart grids in real situations, as well as new mar- ket and regulatory models aimed at reaching the European. 
Union’s energy and climate objectives. Enel is the Vice-Chair- man of the Board of Directors together with other players of


44 Sustainability Report 2019 the international electricity grid.
European Association for Storage of Energy (EASE) -
EASE is the main association that represents organisations active along the entire value chain of energy storage. During 2019, Enel covered various key roles in the governance sys- tem and also participated in preparing position papers target- ed towards promoting the role of energy accumulation in a decarbonized energy system.
International Emissions Trading Association (IETA) - This non-profit business organisation allows companies to engage themselves in a climate action that is coherent with the ob- jectives of the “United Nations Framework Convention on. 
Climate Change” and introduces efficient exchange systems based on the greenhouse gas emissions market. In 2019,
IETA’s work was particularly focused on the EU level, sup- porting the study of the imminent EU Green Deal and, on the. 
Latin American level, supporting the discussions on adopting the carbon price in Latin America. Enel is a member of the. 
IETA Board of Directors and is actively involved in various work groups and activities.
RES4Africa - A network of international leaders that the rep- resents the entire renewable energy value chain and supports the creation of a favourable environment for investment in renewable energies and strategic partnerships in Africa.
Through Enel Green Power, the Enel Group is one of the pro- moting members and currently chairs the association.
The stakeholder engagement process. 
Customers, consumers, influencers, civil society and local communities. 
Climate change is a challenge that concerns the entire socie- ty. Enel promotes the involvement of its main stakeholders in order to increase their awareness and develop a constructive dialogue that can provide a valuable contribution towards the creation of solutions that mitigate climate change and create value for the Group. The most relevant actions carried out in 2019 include: > materiality analysis: climate change, in terms of priority for stakeholders and Company performance in the vari- ous countries in which it operates, was one of the top- ics covered when identifying the main priorities for the stakeholders for sustainability planning; > Enel Focus On: a series of informal meetings was held in. 
New York, Addis Ababa, Bogotá and Santiago de Chile in order to involve the main players and influencers and start an open dialogue with Group management on the main challenges of energy transition. Various climate-related topics were covered, such as renewable energy powered electrification in a zero emissions future, electric mobility and energy efficiency; > social media: in 2019 Enel continued using social media to raise public awareness about topics related to climate change, including decarbonization, renewable energies, electrification, electric mobility and responsible energy consumption; > Twenergy: is a digital ecosystem launched by Enel’s. 
Spanish subsidiary Endesa, with the objective of encour- aging responsible energy consumption by collecting the opinions of experts on energy efficiency through articles, digital meetings and by supporting various sector initia- tives; > raising the awareness of local communities: with the. 
Creating Shared Value (CSV) model, Enel has organised various workshops with the local communities involved in its activities in the various geographical areas, making them aware of topics connected to climate change and explaining how renewables are an extremely effective solution, with benefits not only for the environment but also for the creation of new jobs and for social-economic development.


45. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
Our people. 
In 2019, Enel involved all the people that work for the. 
Company in awareness activities in order to increase their involvement in climate change aspects and promote a cul- ture of innovation and business entrepreneurship on a global level to overcome the energy challenges.
Enel Days 2019, which are annual company events, pro- moted discussions and exchanges about topics such as electrification, decarbonization, digitalization and urbanisa- tion. The main priorities of the Strategic Plan for the next three years were presented, in line with what was com- municated to the financial community during the Capital. 
Markets Day.
On a local level, Enel has also launched awareness cam- paigns on sustainability and climate change, such as the internal campaign launched in Spain concerning the UN. 
SDG commitments, including SDG 13 “Climate action”.
On the occasion of the United Nations Climate Summit, specific internal communication campaigns were organised to illustrate the main events and discuss the new challeng- es and opportunities that emerged during the event.
Finally, Enel collects the opinion of its employees on annual basis as part of the materiality analysis carried out to define the objectives of the Sustainability Plan.
Enel at the UN Climate Action Summit 2019. 
In September 2019, Enel participated in the United Nations Climate Action Summit, the most important global event on climate change, gathering Heads of States, corporate as well as civil society and policy leaders to take increasing ambitious actions to address this challenge, also by pushing for the transformation of economies in line with the UN. 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The Summit, which was the first event of its kind to be convened by UN Secretary-General, focused on a set of action areas, including the energy transition, climate finance and carbon pricing, as well as infrastructure and cities, to boost ambition and accelerate action to implement the goals of the 2015 Paris Agreement.
Enel played a crucial role participating in the Energy Transition Coalition track, being involved in the Italian flagship initiative “Catalysing the Energy Transition through Digital Power Infrastructure” which aims at catalysing the energy transition by promoting digital infrastructures and renewable energy, particularly in developing countries.
Furthermore, Enel’s CEO, attended also the UN Private Sector Forum. Hosted by the UN Secretary-General and organised by the UN Global Compact, the event gathered Chief Executives, young climate leaders, Heads of State and Government as well as UN leaders on the occasion of the Summit, stirring a multi- stakeholder, intergenerational dialogue to share an urgent and collective course of action in tackling the climate crisis.
Enel’s proactive engagement and leadership was highlighted through the commitment to two important pledges on the occasion of the Summit: > Business Ambition for 1.5˚C - Our Only Future, through which Enel committed to reach net-zero emissions by no later than 2050, in line with limiting the rise in global temperatures to 1.5 °C with respect to pre-industrial levels; > Just transition & green, decent jobs, through which Enel committed to promote a just energy transition while respecting the international labour standards across its business.
Further information on the pledges and its implementation can be found in the present chapter.


46 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Enel’s impact on climate change. 
Electricity is essential to guarantee the sustainable progress of modern societies and represents a key factor in reaching the goals of the United Nations 2030 Agenda, in particular. 
SDG 7, to guarantee everyone accessible, reliable, sustaina- ble and modern energy, and SDG 13, regarding climate action.
The electricity production has always played a key role in climate change, as the use of fossil fuels is a considerable source of greenhouse gas emissions. Technological devel- opment, in particular in the area of renewable energies, has however completely transformed this scenario by making electricity one of the main solutions for reducing the carbon footprint world-wide. Enel is aware of these impacts and im- plements specific actions to minimise them, promoting the decarbonization of the energy system and the electrification of the energy demand. As a result, this reduces the green- house gas emissions along the entire value chain.
Enel’s electricity production from fossil fuels (mainly coal and gas) has traditionally represented the main source of green- house gas emissions. In particular, in 2019 the direct emissions (Scope 1) related to generation from fossil fuels were around 69.4 mil t CO2, whereas indirect emissions (Scope 3) related to the extraction and transport of fuels were equal to 4.0 mil teq of CO2 (considering also those relating to the transport of raw materials and waste). Enel is minimising this impact by accel- erating the decommissioning of coal plants, with a reduction of capacity in 2019 equal to 4.1 GW. In parallel, the Group is in- creasing the development of renewable capacity that, together with the contribution of nuclear generation, has avoided 77 mil t of CO2 emissions. Furthermore, Enel is actively committed to the development of energy storage systems that support the integration of renewable capacity, with a total installed capac- ity of 110 MW in 2019. The decarbonization of the energy mix 102-15 103-2 103-3 201-2 also has a positive impact on the reduction of indirect green- house gas emissions (Scope 2) associated with the acquisition of electricity to cover the requirements of business activities.
The management of the electricity network involves the generation of indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) associated with energy losses on the grid, equal to 3.8 mil teq of CO2 in 2019. Enel is actively investing in the digitalization and automation of the electricity grid to reduce these losses and increase reliability, while promoting the diffusion of re- newables in the energy system.
Even if Enel does not have a direct impact in terms of green- house gas emissions in the retail market, the use of products sold by its own customers generates greenhouse gas emis- sions that are accounted for as indirect emissions (Scope 3).
In particular, the emissions connected to the use of electricity sold to customers equalled around 29.0 mil teq of CO2, where- as those related to gas sold equalled 23.9 mil teq of CO2. Enel regularly monitors these emissions and adopts measures aimed at minimising them. In particular, Enel is committed to reducing its indirect emissions associated with the sale of natural gas on the retail market 16% by 2030, with respect to the 2017 values. This goal has been certified by the Science. 
Based Targets initiative.
Finally, Enel offers its customers sustainable energy solutions to reduce the carbon footprint of their energy consumption in a wide range of sectors, including transport, buildings as well as industrial processes and services. For example, with. 
Enel X the Group is promoting the deployment of charging infrastructures for electrical vehicles (79,565 charging points installed in 2019), the development of energy efficiency solu- tions, distributed generation, consultancy services, smart public lighting and circular cities.


47. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
Avoided CO2 emissions from electricity production. 
Contribution towards the reduction of CO2 emissions in other sectors2 through a zero emissions energy mix. 
Increase in storage capacity3 
77 mil t CO2 avoided 110 MW •
•
CO2 free production1. 
By providing data in quasi real time, smart meters permit an efficient management of the energy supply and demand, promoting informed and sustainable consumption. 
A reliable and resilient network contributes towards reducing the CO2 emissions associated with grid losses 44.7 mil end users with active smart meters 3.2 service interruptions per client (SAIFI)5 •
•
Electricity network digitalization. 
Contribution towards reducing CO2 emissions in other sectors through the electrification of consumption, including transport by promoting electric mobility. 
Energy efficiency solutions for reducing consumption (residential, city and industry) 79,565 charging points for electric mobility •
•
Electrification of the energy demand and promotion of energy efficiency. 
POSITIVE IMPACTS. 
Direct CO2 emissions for electricity production (Scope 1)4. 
Indirect CO2 emissions deriving from the extraction and transport of fuel, raw materials and waste 
around 69.4 mil t CO2 4.0 mil teq CO2 •
•
Thermal production. 
Indirect CO2 emissions associated with network losses (Scope 2)6 3.8 mil teq CO2 •
Electricity network losses. 
CO2 emissions associated with the use of electricity sold on the retail market (Scope 3)
CO2 emissions associated with the use of natural gas sold on the retail market (Scope 3) 29.0 mil teq CO around 2
23.9 mil teq CO2 •
•
Sale of retail electricity and gas. 
NEGATIVE IMPACTS. 
Value chain. 
R
E. 
T
A. 
I
L. 
G
E. 
N
E. 
R
A. 
T
I. 
O
N. 
D
I. 
S
T. 
R
I. 
B
U. 
T
I. 
O
N 1 Includes the electricity production from renewable and nuclear sources. 2 The GHG Protocol requires considering the consumption of electricity when calculating the Company’s carbon footprint as indirect emissions (Scope 2). 3 Includes the contribution of the “Global Power Generation” Business Line. 4 Other Scope 1 emissions are equal to 0.4 mil t CO2. See the paragraph “Greenhouse gas emissions” for further details. 5 SAIFI, System Average Interruption Frequency Index. 6 Other Scope 2 emissions are equal to 1.5 mil t CO2 (according to location-based methodology). See the paragraph “Greenhouse gas emissions” for further details.
Enel’s impact on climate change in 2019


48 Sustainability Report 2019. 
The Enel governance model to tackle climate change to approve those documents. 12 meetings held by the. 
Committee in 2019, in 6 of which they addressed is- sues connected with climate and their impact on strat- egies, operations and sustainability.
In 2019, the company also organised a special induction program to provide the directors with an understanding of the sectors in which the Group operates, including issues related to climate change and the related impact on indus- trial strategy and corporate operations.
Chairman - In the exercise of the function of stimulating and coordinating the activities of the Board of Directors, and ascertaining that the Board’s resolutions are carried out, the Chairman plays a proactive role in the process of approving and monitoring corporate and sustainability strat- egies, for which the fight against climate change is a prior- ity. In addition, during 2019 the Chairman also chaired the. 
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee.
Chief Executive Officer and General Manager - He is responsible for defining and supervising a sustainable business model, delineating a strategy for leading energy transition towards a low-carbon model. Furthermore he represents Enel in various initiatives that deal with climate change, holding positions of leadership in world-renowned institutions.
The Enel organisational model for management of climate-related issues. 
Enel has a management team that assigns the responsibilities related to climate topics to the specific Functions that contrib- ute towards guiding Enel’s leadership in energy transition. Each area is responsible for managing the risks and opportunities related to climate change for their own area of competence.
The Holding Functions are responsible for consolidating the scenario analysis and managing the strategic and finan- cial planning process aimed towards promoting a sustain-
Enel’s organisational and corporate governance model de- fines specific tasks and responsibilities for which the Com- pany’s main governance bodies are responsible, guarantee- ing that the risks and opportunities related to climate change are suitably taken into consideration during all important company decision-making processes.
Competences of corporate bodies in relation to climate change. 
The Board of Directors of Enel SpA is responsible for examining and approving the corporate strategy, including the Group’s annual budget and business plan, which incor- porate the main objectives and actions that the Company plans to undertake to lead the energy transition and tackle climate change. 14 meetings held by the Board of Direc- tors in 2019, in 8 of which they addressed issues connect- ed with climate and their impact on strategies, operations and sustainability.
The Board of Directors is supported mainly by two board-lev- el committees for the topic of climate change: > Corporate Governance and Sustainability Commit- tee - It assists the Board of Directors in assessment and decision-making activities concerning, among oth- er things, sustainability, including any relevant climate issues connected with the operations of the Company and its interaction with all stakeholders. 8 meetings held by the Committee in 2019, in 5 of which they ad- dressed issues connected with climate and their im- pact on strategies, operations and sustainability; > Control and Risk Committee - It supports the Board of Directors in performing its duties regarding internal control and risk management. It also examines the contents of the corporate disclosure on climate issues of the Annual Report and the Sustainability Report, is- suing a prior opinion to the Board of Directors, called 102-18 102-19 102-20 102-26 102-29 102-30 102-31 102-35 102-36


49. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones able business model by putting the fight against climate change at the centre of its strategy.
The Global Business Lines are responsible for the devel- opment of activities related to promoting renewable gener- ation, the optimisation of heat capacity, the digitalization of the electricity grid and the development of business solu- tions that enable energy transition and the fight against cli- mate change. In 2019, Enel Green Power and Global Ther- mal Generation merged, creating Global Power Generation, which confirms the guiding role of the Enel Group in energy transition, by means of an integrated process of decarboniza- tion and the sustainable development of renewable capacity.
The Global Service Functions are responsible for adopting sustainable criteria, including climate change, in supply chain management and developing digital solutions that develop the development of technologies enabling energy transition and the fight against climate change.
On a local level, the Regions and Countries have the task of promoting decarbonization and guiding the energy transition towards a low carbon business model, within their areas of responsibility. Furthermore, the Europe and Euro-Mediterra- nean Affairs Function is responsible for defining the Group’s position on climate change, low carbon policies and the regu- lation of the international carbon market on a European level.
Additionally, the Group Investments Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, grants approval for the ex- penses for investments related to business development.
This committee also has the task of guaranteeing that all investments are fully in line with the Group’s commitment to promoting a low carbon business model and reaching de- carbonization by 2050.
Incentives system concerning climate change. 
The Company’s remuneration policy includes different mechanisms for the purpose of progressing towards energy transition, in particular: > a variable short-term remuneration (MBO) that can in- clude objectives relative to the specific company func- tion of each manager. For example, they can include objectives related to the development of renewable en- ergies for the manager in the Global Power Generation. 
Business Line or related to energy transition solutions in the Enel X Global Business Line. Furthermore, the new. 
MBO system assigned to the CEO for 2020 envisions the addition of a new quantitative climate objective con- nected to the growth of the renewable net installed ca- pacity in comparison to the total net installed capacity, which represents the 15% short-term variable retribu- tion; > a long-term variable remuneration that, starting in 2018, includes a quantitative climate objective, that is, the re- duction of Enel Group CO2 emissions per kWheq over the next three years, which represents 10% of total long- term variable retribution;


50 Sustainability Report 2019. 
A
P. 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS LEVEL. 
Chairman. 
MAIN FUNCTIONS RELATED TO CLIMATE CHANGE. 
MANAGEMENT LEVEL. 
Chief Executive Officer. 
Oversight of the climate strategy and coordination of the Board of Directors. 
Climate strategy oversight (risks, planning and disclosure)
Definition and oversight of the sustainable business model towards leading the energy transition. 
Definition of the Strategic Plan and actions to manage the risks and opportunities related to climate change and energy transition. 
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee. 
Control and Risks Committee. 
Board of Directors. 
Approval of investments aligned with Enel’s climate change related goals. 
Holding Functions Global Service Functions. 
Global Business Lines. 
Regions and Countries. 
Group Investment Committee. 
The Enel governance model to face climate change


51. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
Climate scenarios. 
The Group develops short, medium and long-term scenarios for the energy industry and for macroeconomic and finan- cial conditions in order to support its strategic and industrial planning, the evaluation of investments and extraordinary corporate transactions. The role of climate change in these scenarios is increasingly important in terms of: > acute events (heat waves, flooding, hurricanes, etc.) and their potential impact on industrial assets; > chronic phenomena related to structural changes in the climate, such as the rising trend in temperatures, rising sea levels, etc., which give rise to changes in the output of generation plants and in electricity consumption pro- files in the residential and commercial sectors; > transition of the various industrial and business sectors towards a green economy characterised by ever lower emissions levels.
The issues connected with future trends in climate varia- bles (in terms of acute and chronic phenomena) define the so-called “physical scenario”, while the issues associated with the industrial and economic transition towards solu- tions to reduce atmospheric concentrations of CO2 are the characteristic elements of the “transition scenario”. The adoption of these scenarios and their integration into corpo- rate processes takes account of the guidelines of the TCFD and enables the assessment of the risks and opportunities connected with climate change.
The physical climate scenario. 
Among the climate projections developed by the Intergovern- mental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) on a global scale, the. 
Group has selected two representing a specific level of emis- sions (the so-called “Representative Concentration Pathway”): > Representative Concentration Pathway 2.6 (RCP 2.6): compatible with global warming of less than 2 °C above pre-industrial levels by 2100, or an average of about 1 °C in 2081-2100; > Representative Concentration Pathway 8.5 (RCP 8.5): compatible with a scenario where no particular measures are taken to combat climate change, a so-called “busi- ness as usual scenario”. In this scenario, a mean global temperature increase of about 4.3 °C above pre-industrial levels is forecast for 2081-2100.
In the RCP 8.5 climate projections, the Mediterranean and. 
Central/South America will experience a significant increase in average temperatures and substantial decline in precipi- tation, with the effects becoming more pronounced in the second half of the century and the impact increasing up to 2100. In the RCP 2.6 scenario, the effects will be similar but less intense, with the trend slowing in the second half of the century, thereby producing a substantial differential between the two scenarios in 2100.
The scenarios are global in nature. Accordingly, in order to determine their effects in the areas of relevance for the. 
Group, a collaborative initiative has been started with the. 
Earth Sciences department of the International Center for. 
Theoretical Physics (ICTP) of Trieste. As part of this collab- oration, the ICTP provides projections for the major climate variables with a grid resolution of 50 km2 and a forecast ho- rizon running from 2030 to 2050. The main variables are av- erage temperatures, rainfall and snowfall and solar radiation.
The first phase of the study conducted in 2019 involved Italy and Spain, with the consequent definition of a preliminary physical scenario.
Italy. 
Acute phenomena: in the 2030-2050 period, heat waves are expected to increase appreciably both in terms of fre- quency and geographical distribution, especially in the south- ern regions of the country. In these scenarios, the intensity of extreme rain and snowfall events increases sharply, but their frequency declines compared with historic trends.
Chronic phenomena: the average annual temperature is expected to increase over the 2030-2050 period in both the. 
RCP 2.6 and 8.5 scenarios. In the RCP 8.5 scenario, the tem- perature is expected to be an average of 0.4 °C compared with the RCP 2.6 scenario in the 2030-2050 period, with the differential then widening significantly in the second half of the century. Chronic changes in temperature can be ana- lysed to obtain information on the potential effects on cool- ing and heating demand in local energy systems. In terms


52 Sustainability Report 2019 of heating days (HDs), i.e. days with a temperature below 15 °C, and cooling days (CDs), or days with a temperature above 24 °C, the 2030-2050 period will see HDs decrease by 14% and CDs increase by 60% in the RCP 2.6 scenario, while the RCP 8.5 scenario will see a larger decline in HDs (-17%) and a larger increase in CDs (+80%).
Spain. 
Acute phenomena: over the 2030-2050 period, heat waves are expected to increase appreciably in frequen- cy, with their geographical spread expected to expand, especially in the southern area of the country. Extreme rainfall will increase in intensity but their frequency will decline. At the same time, extreme snowfalls will largely remain located in the current geographical areas but their frequency and intensity could decline sharply.
Chronic phenomena: the average annual temperature is expected to increase over the 2030-2050 period in both the RCP 2.6 and 8.5 scenarios. In the RCP 8.5 scenario, the temperature is expected to rise by an average of 0.4 °C compared with the RCP 2.6 scenario in the 2030-2050 period, with the differential then widening significantly in the second half of the century. In terms of heating days (HDs) and cooling days (CDs) the 2030-2050 period will see HDs decrease by 6% and CDs increase by 29% in the. 
RCP 2.6 scenario, while the RCP 8.5 scenario will see a larger decline in HDs (-10%) and a larger increase in CDs (+43%).
The transition scenario. 
The transition scenario depicts the evolution of industrial and business sectors in an economic, social and regulato- ry context consistent with different trends in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and, therefore, is correlated with the. 
RCP 2.6 and 8.5 climate scenarios. The Group has therefore equipped itself with quantitative tools that incorporate as- sumptions regarding the context to produce corresponding projections for energy demand, electricity demand, electric- ity production, the penetration of renewables and electric vehicles, etc.: in short, all the variables that characterize a national energy system relevant to the Group’s activities.
In defining the transition scenarios, we distinguish between: > assumptions concerning the global macroeconomic and energy context in terms of commodity prices, interest rates, gross domestic product, etc., using international benchmarks produced by entities such as the Interna- tional Energy Agency (IEA), Bloomberg New Energy. 
Finance (BNEF), International Institute for Applied. 
Systems Analysis (IIASA), etc. As regards IIASA, for example, consideration was given to the fundamentals driving the “Shared Socioeconomic Pathways” (SSPs), in which general energy scenarios related to physical cli- matic scenarios are developed. The information deriving from the “SSPs” is used to support long-term forecasts on commodity prices; > assumptions concerning local policies and regulato- ry measures associated with the fight against climate change, such as the reduction of carbon dioxide emis-
Heating days (HD)
Cooling days (CD)
Heating days (HD)
Cooling days (CD)
RCP 2.6 60% -14% 80% -17%
RCP 8.5. 
RCP 2.6 29% -6% 43% -10%
RCP 8.5


53. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones sions, the efficiency of the energy system, the decar- bonization of the electricity sector, the reduction of oil consumption, etc. For Italy and Spain, reference is made to those countries’ integrated National Energy and Climate Plans (NECPs), which are also approved at the European level, while outside Europe, reference is made to the respective national energy programs of the countries involved.
In order to define the transition scenario for the electricity sector, the Group considers the elements described above (physical scenarios, assumptions about the macro and en- ergy context, regulatory developments) as prerequisites for the assessment of future projections of electricity demand, electricity generation, renewables, etc.
In this context, the effect of temperature on electricity de- mand in the long term (2030-2050) has been estimated. Ital- ian electricity demand is provisionally forecast to increase on average by up to 5%, due to the combined effect of the chronic increase in temperature and the transition of the sys- tem towards greater electrification of energy consumption.
Moreover, in the RCP 8.5 physical scenario the probability of extremely hot years increases, leading to a future increase of up to 10% in electricity demand, together with the risks associated with more frequent extreme weather events.
In the case of Spain, however, over the same time horizon the chronic effects would involve an average increase in de- mand of around 2% and, in the possible peak year of the. 
RCP 8.5 scenario, it could reach +4%. The smaller increase. 
The strategy to tackle climate change in electricity demand in the Spain compared with Italy mainly reflects to the narrower scope for the future electrification of consumption, as it is currently already largely electrified as a consequence of the presence of nuclear power in the country. These effects only reflect the long-term impact of temperature on electricity demand and the inertial evolution of the national energy system. They do not consider the re- percussions of climate change on economies underscored in the IPCC’s special report on global warming, which could also have indirect effects on economies and, therefore, on electricity demand.
The strategy of the Enel Group has proven its ability to cre- ate sustainable long-term value, integrating the themes of sustainability and close attention to climate change issues.
The Group is among the leaders guiding the energy transi- tion through the decarbonization of electricity generation and the electrification of energy consumption, which rep- resent opportunities both to increase value creation and to contribute positively to more rapid achievement of the. 
Sustainable Development Goals set by the United National (SDGs) in the 2030 Agenda, placing SDG 13 for the fight against climate change at the centre of its strategy.
As a result, the 2020-2022 Strategic Plan is based on a re- newed set of “purpose driven” strategic pillars that repre- sent the main industry trends connected to energy transi- tion and the fight against climate change, also identifying the main transformation enablers. The trends in decarbon- ization and electrification, which are naturally connected with the generation and sale of electricity, will be enabled by the development of increasingly digital grids and the evolution towards a platform-based business model.
102-15 103-2 103-3 201-2 Δ peak year Average. 
Effects on energy demand (2030-2050)
Italy ～+5% ～7%
RCP 2.6. 
RCP 8.5. 
Up to +10% ～3%
Spain ～+2% ～ 2%
RCP 2.6. 
RCP 8.5. 
Up to +4% ～2%


54 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Thanks to the strategies implemented in the field, the Group could achieve an ordinary low-carbon EBITDA of 18.3 billion euros in 2022 that will bring the contribution of products, services and technologies with low-carbon emissions to 91% of the total ordinary EBITDA. During the period of the. 
Plan, in compliance with the objectives of EBITDA, more than 90% of Capex will be destined to products, services and technologies with low-carbon emissions.
Decarbonization. 
In terms of decarbonization, in a configuration of the scenar- io2 consistent with limiting global warming within the levels established with the Paris Agreement, installed renewables 2
capacity should increase from 35% in 2018 to 69% in 2040 thanks to the progressive decline in generation costs and to the increased public awareness of climate issues. This evolution of the system towards more variable sources will require greater flexibility to manage the balance between generation and con- sumption. Accordingly, demand response and storage technol- ogies are also expected to grow significantly, also in this case boosted by a steep decline in costs, which are expected to halve over the next 20 years.
The major decarbonization objectives of plan will therefore be achieved thanks to an acceleration of renewables development as well as the progressive decommissioning of coal-fired plants. The objective is to achieve an entirely marginal level of coal generation by 2030, with a 74% decrease in production by 2022.
2012 2018 2019 2022 2012 2018 2019 2022. 
Production from coal (TWh) -74% 92.0 16.9 64.4 37.6. 
Net installed coal capacity (GW) -58% 17.6 6.6 15.8 11.7. 
Sustainable Development Scenario IEA (International Energy Agency), World Energy Outlook 2019.


55. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
The target for increasing renewables capacity is expected to rise by 14.1 GW (11.6 GW considering exclusively the net installed capacity) in 2020-2022 and will be achieved through a number of strategic lines of development: > 5.4 GW will be developed in countries such as Italy,
Spain and Chile, where new investments in renewable energy will support the decarbonization of the genera- tion fleet; > 5.1 GW will mainly be developed in Brazil and the Unit- ed States, where an increasing number of large custom- ers are moving from the regulated market to purchase electricity from renewable sources developed primarily through long-term power purchase agreements (PPA); > 3.6 GW will be developed to support our presence in re- cently opened markets or in entirely new markets, both directly and through joint ventures.
Thanks to these initiatives, 60% of the Group’s total installed capacity in 2022 will be renewable.
In order to support the decarbonization process, the plan also envisages a significant contribution from the new flexi- bility services provided by Enel X. Demand response capaci- ty will expand from 6.3 GW in 2019 to over 10.1 GW in 2022, while storage services will increase from the current 110. 
MW to about 440 MW in 2022.
Electrification. 
Electrification, which means the substitution of electricity for other commodities in energy consumption, will play a central role in the Enel Group strategy.
In line with the IEA sustainable development scenario, the share of electricity in final global energy consumption should reach 43%3 in 2040 (from 24% in 2018). This sce- nario assumes a significant increase in the average annual 3 Figure referred to “useful energy”, intended as the energy that is available to end-users to satisfy their needs (source IEA WEO 2019 SDS).
investment for end use, which in 2030-2040 should be almost 5 times that in 2018.
The opportunities deriving from this trend will involve a broad spectrum of activities, ranging from distributed gen- eration to energy efficiency upgrading for buildings and electric vehicle infrastructure, thus supporting the growth of companies that move first. Enel’s plan seeks to achieve a stable market share in the free markets of European countries, supported by a 65% increase in the number of customers and 21% growth in volumes sold on the free market in 2022.
Further impetus to the electrification process will come from electric mobility, with the installation of about 736,000 recharging points by 2022, and more generally from the new services offered by Enel X, which will permit developing business models oriented towards pro- moting the decarbonization of other industrial sectors and services.
Enabling infrastructure. 
In order to adequately support value creation from these two macro trends, the plan identifies electricity distribu- tion network as one of the main enablers. The evolution of the role of distributors will be a key factor in supporting the greater complexity involved with distributed renewables generation and electric mobility, in managing the digitaliza- tion process driven by innovative services offered to cus- tomers and in ensuring the resilience of the energy system in view of the impacts of climate change. As a result, Enel will continue to invest in network digitalization between 2020 and 2022, increasing the number of second genera- tion smart meters from 13.1 million to 28.8 million.
Platforms and ecosystems. 
Enel will adopt a platform-based model on a global level for its grids, in retail and in Enel X, which will make it pos- sible to standardise and optimise the operating processes by supporting the obtainment of the efficiencies set forth in the Plan, and promote the establishment of new business opportunities that promote an energy model that is free from greenhouse gas emissions.


56 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Main risks and opportunities linked to climate change. 
The identification, assessment and management of risks and opportunities. 
The process of defining the Group’s strategy is accompa- nied by a careful analysis of the risks and opportunities con- nected to it, also including the aspects related to climate change.
Every year, before approving the Strategic Plan, the Control and Risk Committee, which is appointed by the Board of. 
Directors, is presented with a quantitative analysis of the risks and opportunities related to the Group’s strategic posi- tioning, which includes aspects related to the climate, such as regulatory factors and weather-climatic events.
Climate change and the energy transition will impact Group activities in a variety of ways. In order to identify the main types of risk and opportunity and their impact on the busi- ness associated with them in a structured manner consist- ent with the TCFD, we have adopted a framework that ex- plicitly represents the main relationships between scenario variables and types of risk and opportunity, specifying the strategic and operational approaches to managing them, comprising mitigation and adaptation measures.
There are two main macro-categories of risks/opportunities: those connected with developments in physical variables and those linked to the evolution of the transition scenarios.
Physical risks are divided in turn between acute (i.e. ex- treme events) and chronic, with the former linked to ex- tremely intense meteorological conditions and the latter to more gradual but structural changes in climate conditions.
Extreme events expose the Group to the risk of prolonged unavailability of assets and infrastructure, the cost of restor- ing service, customer disruptions and so on. Chronic chang- es in climate conditions expose the Group to other risks or opportunities: for example, structural changes in tempera- ture could cause changes in electricity demand and have an impact on output, while alterations in rainfall or wind con- ditions could impact the Group’s business by increasing or decreasing potential electricity generation.
The energy transition towards a more sustainable model characterised by a gradual reduction of CO2 emissions has risks and opportunities connected both with changes in the regulatory and legal context and trends in technology devel- opment, electrification and the consequent market devel- opments.
Consistent with the climate and transition scenarios used by. 
Enel to determine risks and opportunities, the main transi- tion-related phenomena are beginning to emerge in relation to customer behaviour, industrial strategies being adopted in all economic sectors and regulatory policies. Between 2020 and 2030, the transition trends will become visible in response to the evolution of the context: the Enel Group has decided to facilitate the transition, and is therefore ready to seize all the opportunities that may arise from an acceler- ation in that transition. As discussed previously, our stra- tegic choices, which are already strongly oriented towards the energy transition, with more than 90% of investment dedicated to the transition, enable us to incorporate risk mit- igation and opportunity maximisation “by design”, adopting a positioning that takes account of the medium and long- term phenomena we have identified. The strategic choices are accompanied by the operating best practices adopted by the Group.
The framework illustrated on the next page also highlights the relationships that link the physical and transition scenari- os with the potential impact on the Group’s business. These effects can be assessed from the perspective of three time horizons: the short term (1-3 years), in which sensitivity analyses based on the Strategic Plan presented to investors in 2019 can be performed; the medium term (until 2030), in which it is possible to assess the effects of the energy transition; and the long terms (2030-2050), in which chronic structural changes in the climate should begin to emerge.
The main sources of risk and opportunity identified, the best practices for the operational management of weather and climate phenomena, and the qualitative and quantitative im- pact assessments performed to date are discussed below.
As declared by the TCFD, the process of disclosing informa- tion on the risks and opportunities connected with climate change will be gradual and incremental from year to year.
102-15 103-2 103-3 201-2


57. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
SCENARIO PHENOMENA. 
TIME HORIZON. 
RISK & OPPORTUNITY CATEGORY DESCRIPTION IMPACT MANAGEMENT APPROACH. 
Acute physical From the short term (1-3 years)
Extreme events. 
Risk: especially extreme weather/climate events. Extreme events can damage assets and interrupt operations.
The Group adopts best practices to manage the restoration of service as quickly as possible. It also works to implement investments in resilience (for Italy). With regard to risk assessment in insurance, the Group has a loss prevention program for property risk that also assesses the main exposures to natural events. Looking forward, the assessments will also include the potential impacts of longterm trends in the most significant climate variables.
Chronic physical From the long term (2030-2050)
Market Risk/opportunity: increase or decrease in electricity demand; increase or decrease in electricity production.
Electricity demand is also affected by temperature, whose fluctuation can impact our business.
The Group’s geographical and technological diversification means that the impact of changes (positive and negative) in a single variable is mitigated at the global level. In order to ensure that operations always take account of weather and climate phenomena, the Group adopts a range of practices such as, for example, weather forecasting, real-time monitoring of plants and long-term climate scenarios.
Transition From the medium term (2022-2030)
Policy & Regulation Risk/opportunity: policies on CO2 prices and emissions, energy transition incentives, greater scope for investment in renewables and resilience regulation.
Policies concerning the energy transition and resilience can impact the volume of and returns on investments.
The Group is minimizing its exposure to risks through the progressive decarbonization of its generation fleet. The Group’s strategic actions, which are focused on investment in renewables, networks and customers, enable it to mitigate potential threats and exploit the opportunities connected with the energy transition. The Group is also actively contributing to the development of public policies.
Transition From the medium term (2022-2030)
Market R i s k / o p p o r t u n i t y : changes in the prices of commodities and energy, evolution of energy mix, changes in retail consumption, changes in competitive environment.
Considering two alternative transition scenarios, the Group assesses the impact of trends in the proportion of renewable sources in the energy mix, electrification and the penetration of EVs to estimate their potential impacts.
The Group is maximizing opportunities by adopting a strategy founded on the energy transition and the rapid expansion of renewable generation and the electrification of energy consumption.
Transition From the medium term (2022-2030)
Product & Services Opportunity: increase in margins and greater scope for investment as a consequence of the transition in terms of greater penetration of new electrical technologies for residential consumption and electric transportation.
Trends in the electrification of transportation and residential consumption will potentially have an impact on Enel’s business.
The Group is maximizing opportunities thanks to its strong positioning in new businesses and services.
From the medium term (2022-2030)
Technology Considering two alternative transition scenarios, the Group assesses the potential opportunities to scale up current businesses in response to trends in the electrification of transportation.
The Group is maximizing opportunities thanks to its strong positioning in global networks.


58 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Identification, assessment and management of physical risks and opportunities. 
Taking the IPCC scenarios as our reference point, develop- ments in the following physical variables and the associated operational and industrial impacts connected with potential risks and opportunities are assessed.
Chronic physical risks. 
The climate scenarios developed with the ICTP do not provide definitive indications of structural changes before 2030, but changes could begin to emerge between 2030 and 2050.
The main impacts of chronic physical changes would be reflected in the following variables: > Electricity demand: variation in the average tempera- ture level with a potential increase or reduction in elec- tricity demand.
> Thermal generation: variation in the level and average temperatures of the oceans and rivers, with effects on thermal generation.
> Hydroelectric generation: variation in the average level of rainfall and snowfall and temperatures with a potential increase or reduction in hydro generation;
SCENARIO PHENOMENA. 
RISK & OPPORTUNITY CATEGORY. 
DESCRIPTION TIME HORIZON1 IMPACT DESCRIPTION. 
Chronic physical Market. 
Risk/opportunity: increase or decrease in electricity demand.
Short term. 
Electricity demand is also affected by temperature, whose fluctuations can have an impact on Enel’s business. Although structural changes should not emerge in the short/medium-term, in order to assess the sensitivity of Group performance to potential temperature variations, Enel has performed an analysis of sensitivity to changes of +/-1% in electricity demand for the Group as a whole.
Chronic physical €MLN Market. 
Risk/opportunity: increase or decrease in renewables generation. Short term. 
Renewables generation is also affected by the availability of resources, whose fluctuations can have an impact on our business. Although structural changes should not emerge in the short/medium-term, in order to assess the sensitivity of Group performance to potential temperature variations, we have performed an analysis of sensitivity to changes of +/-10% in potential electricity output by technology.
1 Time horizon: short (2020-2022); medium (up to 2030); long (2030-2050).


59. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones > Solar generation: variation in the average level of so- lar radiation, temperature and rainfall with a potential increase or reduction in solar generation; > Wind generation: variation in the average wind level with a potential increase or reduction in wind genera- tion.
The Group will work to estimate the relationships between changes in physical variables and the change in the poten- tial output of individual plants in the different categories of electricity generation technology.
Scenario analysis has shown that chronic structural chang- es in the trends of physical variables will begin to occur af- ter 2030. However, in order to obtain an indicative estimate of the potential impacts, it is possible to test sensitivity of the Business Plan to the factors potentially influenced by the physical scenario, regardless of any direct relationship with climate variables. Of course, such stress testing has an extremely low probability of occurrence based on histor- ical events and geographical diversification. The variables examined are: > electricity demand (+/-1% per year), whose variations can potentially impact the generation and retail busi- nesses. It was stress tested for all countries in which the Group operates; > the output potential of renewables plants was also stressed (+/-10% over a single year). Variations in this variable can potentially impact the generation busi- ness. It at the individual technology level around the globe.
The data reported show the effect on a single year for a single generation technology and include both the volume and price effects.
GLOBAL BUSINESS LINE AFFECTED SCOPE QUANTIFICATION - TYPE OF IMPACT UPSIDE/ DOWNSIDE. 
QUANTIFICATION - RANGE < 100 MIL EUROS 100-300 MIL EUROS. 
Global Power Generation Group EBITDA/year +1% Upside -1% Downside. 
Global Power Generation. 
Group potential hydroelectric production EBITDA/year +10% Upside -10% Downside. 
Group potential wind production EBITDA/year +10% Upside -10% Downside. 
Group potential solar production EBITDA/year +10% Upside -10% Downside. 
Upside scenario current policies. 
Downside scenario current policies


60 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Acute physical risks. 
With regard to acute physical phenomena, the incidence and frequency of extreme physical phenomena can cause significant and unexpected physical damage to assets and generate negative externalities associated with the interrup- tion of service.
To assess the scale of the risks of extreme climate events, the scenario results will be assessed in terms of the fre- quency and intensity of the key phenomena, together with technical information on generation assets, taking account of the differing levels of resilience, and identifying metrics to measure potential losses and any externalities caused by the interruption of business operations.
The intensification of the effects of climate change means it is essential to adopt adaptive behaviours: each catastroph- ic event represents a lesson learned for Enel, from which we draw inspiration to strengthen design techniques and preventive measures to ensure the resilience of the asset portfolio.
From this perspective, the method and the information ex- tracted from the ex post analysis of events play a crucial role in determining the processes and practices to be deployed in mitigating such events in the future.
Power generation. 
As regards generation, over time the Group has implement- ed targeted measures at specific sites and established ad hoc management activities and processes.
Measures implemented for specific sites in recent years include: > improving cooling water management systems for cer- tain plants in order to counter the problems caused by the decline in water levels on rivers, such as the Po in. 
Italy; > installing fogging systems to improve the flow of inlet air and offset the reduction in power output caused by the increase in ambient temperature in CCGTs; > installing drainage pumps, raising embankments, peri- odic cleaning of canals and interventions to consolidate land adjacent to plants to prevent landslides in order to mitigate flood risks.
The Group adopts a series of best practices to manage the impact of weather events on power generation, such as: > weather forecasting both to monitor renewable re- source availability and detect extreme events, with warning systems to ensure the protection of people and assets; > insurance policies, to cover damage to assets and the negative externalities caused, for example, by lost elec- tricity generation; > the real-time remote monitoring of electricity power plants; > safe rooms in areas exposed to tornadoes and hurri- canes, such as the wind plants in Oklahoma in the Unit- ed States.
In addition, in order to ensure rapid response to adverse events, the Group has adopted specific emergency man- agement procedures with protocols for real-time communi- cation and management to restore operations rapidly and standard checklists for damage assessment and the safe return to service for all plants as rapidly as possible.
Infrastructure & Networks. 
The Enel Group’s Infrastructure and Networks Global. 
Business Line has adopted a more complex and innova- tive approach to respond to such extreme events de- nominated “4R”, in addition to the measures already envisaged to upgrade and improve the electricity dis- tribution grid. This new approach has been structured over the past few years in a body of documentation that governs the measures to be taken in preparation for a grid emergency once the damage has been caused. More spe- cifically, the 4R strategy comprises: > an initial “Risk prevention” phase, which includes all actions to reduce the probability of losing grid compo- nents due to an event and/or to minimise its effects.
This is pursued both through measures to enhance the robustness of grid infrastructure in extreme weather events and maintenance measures. Measures to re- inforce the grid have been implemented not only to improve service quality in general, but also to reduce the risk of prolonged or widespread outages in the event of a malfunction, using a probabilistic approach.
This approach has mainly been used to reduce the risk of outages at critical installations (primary substa- tions) or for particular grid configurations (where no alternative power supply routes are available); > in Italy, to prevent service interruptions due to the breakage of overhead power lines as a result of snow- fall, the risk of such interruptions has been assessed on the basis of the probability of losing segments of the grid and then calculating the relative impact in terms of customers without power and the loss in terms of power not delivered. To address these risks,


61. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones investments include the targeted replacement of un- insulated lines with insulated conductors, increasing the number of alternative routes to restore power and the use of remote control systems to isolate the section of the grid affected by the fault as quickly as possible; > again in Italy, the measures to increase resilience are contained in the three-year investment plan of e-dis- tribuzione and are designed to limit the risk of ser- vice interruptions caused by the main critical factors that may impact e-distribuzione’s medium-voltage grid. The measures for the 2017-2021 period involve some 4 million customers and over 7,000 km of medi- um-voltage lines; > a subsequent “Readiness” phase that includes all measures to improve the timeliness with which po- tentially risky events are identified, ensuring coordi- nation with the Civil Protection Department and local officials, as well as to prepare intervention measures once a fault has occurred. Examples of measures in- clude systems for forecasting meteorological events and their impact on the grid, the provisioning of ad- equate equipment to build temporary plant or emer- gency grid structures, the preparation of operational plans and the organisation of exercises. One of the most important measures is certainly the definition of agreements for the mobilisation of designated ex- traordinary resources to respond to an emergency.
These include both internal resources and the re- sources of contracting companies operating in other areas of a country and/or in other countries; > the third phase is the “Response” phase, meaning the operational response capacity for a specific ex- treme event, which is directly correlated with the abil- ity to mobilise operational resources in the field and with the availability of grid backup and redundancies; > the final phase is the “Recovery” phase, which seeks to restore an acceptable and safe level of service in the shortest possible time.
Response and Recovery are complementary. The philos- ophy that guides interventions in these two phases is that exceptional resources must be used to deal with excep- tional events, and that all the available resources prepared in the readiness phase must therefore be mobilised. The assessment of the damage caused to the grid is the first activity to be performed. Enel promptly activates a task force of specialised technicians and deploys special equip- ment (helicopters and generators) to restore service, and mobilises personnel from other areas/countries. Great at- tention is paid in these phases to communication with all the players involved and the determination of the most effective strategy to manage the repair of power lines and the restoration of service to customers.
In this regard, the Enel Group in Italy is a permanent guest of the Operations Committee of the National Civil Protec- tion Department and has signed protocols with both the. 
National Civil Protection Department and Regional Civil. 
Protection Departments in order to facilitate communica- tion in emergency situations, joint training and any other initiative that makes collaboration with the civil protection system more effective and rapid.


62 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Identification, assessment and management of transition-related risks and opportunities. 
As regards the risks and opportunities associated with transi- tion variables, Enel uses the different reference scenarios in combination with the various elements that make up the risk identification process (e.g. competitive context, long-term vi- sion of the industry, materiality analysis, etc.). Priority is given to the most material phenomena. The main risks and oppor- tunities identified within this framework are described below.
Policy and Regulation > Limits on emissions and carbon pricing: the en- actment of laws and regulations that introduce more stringent emissions limits by government action (non-market driven) and market-based mechanisms, such as a carbon tax in non-ETS (Emissions Trading. 
System) sectors or an expansion of the ETS in other sectors.
> Opportunities: command & control regulations and market-based mechanisms strengthening. 
CO2 price signals to foster investment in car- bon-free technologies.
> Risk: lack of a coordinated approach among the various actors and policy-makers involved and limited effectiveness of the policy instruments deployed, with an impact on the speed of the trend towards electrification and decarbonization in the various sectors, compared with a decisive group strategy focused on the energy transition.
> Incentives for the energy transition: development incentives and opportunities with a view to the en- ergy transition, consequently guiding the energy system towards the use of low-emission energy re- sources as the mainstream approach in the energy mixes of countries, greater electrification of energy consumption, energy efficiency, flexibility of the elec- trical system and upgrading of infrastructure, with a positive impact on the return on investment and new business opportunities.
> Opportunities: additional volumes and great- er margins due to additional investment in the electricity industry, in line with the electrification strategy, decarbonization and the upgrading of enabling infrastructure.
> Risks: obstacles to achieving energy transition targets due to regulatory systems that do no ef- fectively support the energy transition, delays in permitting, no upgrading of the electricity grid, etc.
> Resilience regulation To improve standards or intro- duce ad hoc mechanisms to incentivise investments in resilience in the context of the evolution of climate change.
> Opportunities: benefits from investments that reduce service quality and continuity risks for the community.
> Risks: in the case of especially severe extreme events with a greater-than-expected impact, there is a risk that recovery could be slower than planned, with an associated reputational risk.
> Financial measures for the energy transition: In- centives for the energy transition through appropri- ate policy measures and financial instruments, which should be capable of supporting an investment frame- work and a long-term, credible and stable positioning of policy-makers. Introduction of rules and/or public and private financial instruments (e.g. funds, mecha- nisms, taxonomies, benchmarks) aimed at integrating sustainability into financial markets and public finance instruments.
> Opportunities: the creation of new markets and sustainable finance products consistent with the investment framework, activating greater public resources for decarbonization and access to fi- nancial resources in line with energy transition objectives and the related impact on costs and on finance charges; introduction of subsidised sup- port tools (funds and calls) for the transition.
> Risks: actions and instruments are not sufficient to provide incentives consistent with an overall positioning tailored to the energy transition, un- certainty or slowdown in the introduction of new instruments and rules due to the deterioration in the public finances or differences in application in the geographic areas in which the Group oper- ates.


63. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
Market > Market dynamics, such as those connected with the variability of commodity prices, the increase in electricity consumption due to the energy transition and the penetration of renewables, have an impact on business drivers, with effects on margins and on electricity generation and sales volumes.
> Opportunities: positive effects associated with the growth in electricity demand and the greater room for renewables and all sources of flexibility.
> Risks: less room in the market for residual ther- mal generation technologies in the short term.
However, as the penetration of renewables in the electricity mix increases, the system could require greater flexibility, including regulated gas- fired generation.
Technology > Gradual penetration of new technologies such as storage and demand response; digital lever to transform operating models and “platform” business models.
> Opportunities: investments in developing technol- ogy solutions.
Products and Services > Electrification of residential energy consumption:
With the gradual electrification of end uses, the pen- etration of products with lower costs and a smaller impact in terms of residential emissions will expand (for example, the use of heat pumps for heating and cooling).
> Opportunities: increase in electricity consump- tion.
> Risks: additional competition in this market seg- ment.
> Electric mobility and electrification of industri- al energy consumption: Use of more efficient and effective modes of transportation from the point of view of climate change, with a special focus on the development of electric mobility and charging infra- structure; electrification of large-scale industrial ener- gy users.
> Opportunities: Positive effects of the increase in electricity demand and greater margins connect- ed with the penetration of electric transportation.
The Group has already taken strategic actions to mitigate potential risks and exploit the opportunities offered by the energy transition. Thanks to our industrial and finan- cial strategy incorporating ESG factors, an integrated ap- proach shaped by sustainability and innovation makes it possible to create shared long-term value.
A strategy focused on complete decarbonization and the energy transition makes the Group resilient to the risks as- sociated with the introduction of more ambitious policies for emissions reductions and maximises opportunities for the development of renewable generation, infrastructure and enabling technologies.
Unlike chronic climate impacts, developments in the tran- sition scenario could have impacts in the short and medi- um term (by 2030) as well.
As with climate variables, the current Business Plan (2020-2022) can be tested for its sensitivity to the fac-


64 Sustainability Report 2019 tors potentially influenced by the transition scenario, with particular regard to the price of CO2 (ETS). Examining the main transition variables, the price of CO2 appears to be an especially reliable driver of regulatory measures that could accelerate the transition process.
To assess the impact of possible changes in this driver, the effects of a potential change of +/-10% in the CO2 price for Italy and Spain are determined. This price change would modify the equilibrium price of both wholesale mar- kets, with repercussions on the margins of Global Power. 
Generation for both thermal and renewable plants.
To quantify the risks and opportunities engendered by the energy transition in the medium term, two scenarios have been considered for Italy and Spain: > “Current policies” scenario: based on the current energy transition policies of Italy and Spain (PNIEC), which are presumably consistent with an intermedi- ate climate scenario between RCP 8.5 and RCP 2.6.
The “current policies” scenario considered for the two countries, while among the less ambitious sce- narios of RCP 2.6, represents a plausible outlook in that it derives from policies that have already been approved and which will probably not be disregarded.
At a global level, however, if the world’s leading coun- tries do not adopt effective decarbonization policies, instead pursuing policies that produce no change or actually worsen conditions, the “current policies” ap- proach could still lead to a climate scenario in line with. 
RCP 8.5; > “Accelerated policies” scenario: based on poten- tially rapid transition policies aimed at achieving CO2 reduction targets that are presumably consistent with the RCP 2.6 scenario. This scenario also incorporates an increase in energy efficiency and a drive to electri-
SCENARIO PHENOMENA. 
RISK & OPPORTUNITY CATEGORY DESCRIPTION TIME HORIZON1 IMPACT DESCRIPTION. 
Transition Policy & Regulation. 
Risk: impact on margin due to measures affecting CO2 price. Short/medium terms. 
Considering the potential impact of regulatory measures to incentivize energy transition, the Group assesses the exposure to changes of +/-10% in the price of CO2 using sensitivity analysis.
Transition Market. 
Opportunity: incease in margins due to impact of transition on electrification of energy consumption. Risk: increase in competition and possible decrease in market share.
Medium term. 
Considering two alternative transition scenarios, the Group assesses the impact of trends in efficiency, the adoption of electric devices and the penetration of EVs to estimate its potential effect on electricity demand.
Transition Products & Services. 
Opportunity: increase in margins and greater scope for investment due to impact of transition in terms of penetration of new technologies and electric transportation.
Medium term. 
Considering two alternative transition scenarios, the Group has assessed the impact of trends in the electrification of transportation and residential consumption to assess the potential effects.
1 Time horizon: short (2020-2022); medium (up to 2030); long (2030-2050).


65. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones fy end-user energy consumption.
Considering these transition scenarios and models of the energy system, Enel determined their impact on the vari- ables that most greatly affect our business, such as elec- tricity demand, the system energy mix and the increase in electricity consumption due to the electrification of final consumption.
The transition effects over the medium term can produce new opportunities, thanks to the growth of renewables, and potential risks linked to the loss of profitability for thermal plants. Based on assumptions about future reg- ulatory developments and market trends, it is possible to forecast developments in output in the Group’s electric- ity markets (for now, Italy and Spain only) and unit mar- gins. These considerations offer a basis for determining the Group’s possible strategic positioning in terms of re- source allocation (for example, maintaining or increasing our market share in renewables or accelerating the phase- out of obsolete technologies).
By 2030, the dynamics of the energy transition may pro- duce significant opportunities in the retail electricity mar- ket. The progressive electrification of final consumption, especially in transportation and the residential sector, will lead to a significant increase in electricity consumption.
Considering the transition scenarios developed by the. 
Group for Italy and Spain, the increase in electricity con- sumption in the domestic segment could produce an in- crease of more than 300 million euros in EBITDA by 2030 compared with 2022. Considering a more optimistic tran- sition scenario, i.e. one with a higher electrification rate for transportation and heating/cooling, the effects could be even greater, leaving unchanged the assumptions for margins and market share set out in the Plan.
GLOBAL BUSINESS LINE AFFECTED SCOPE QUANTIFICATION - TYPE OF IMPACT UPSIDE/ DOWNSIDE. 
QUANTIFICATION - RANGE < 100 MIL EUROS 100-300 MIL EUROS > 300 MIL EUROS. 
IMPACT WITH ACCELERATED TRANSITION. 
Global Power Generation Italy and Iberia EBITDA/Year +10% Upside -10% Downside. 
Retail Italy and Iberia EBITDA 2030 vs 2022 Upside. 
Enel X. 
Italy and Iberia Gross Margin Upside. 
Upside scenario current policies. 
Downside scenario current policies


66 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Enel’s performance in the fight against climate change. 
Direct and indirect GHG (greenhouse gas) emissions. 
The trend of direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions over the past years, in line with the GHG protocol, is provided below.
The GHG inventory statements were audited by DNV GL, one of the main certification entities world-wide, with a rea- sonable level of certainty for Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions, as limited to the sale of natural gas, and with a limited level of certainty for the other Scope 3 emissions included within the scope of application of the inventory.
The audit was conducted according to Standard ISO 4064- 3 for the compliance of greenhouse gas (GHG) inventories with the WBCSD/WRI Corporate Accounting and Reporting. 
Standard (GHG Protocol).
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (1) UM 2019 2018 2017. 
Total direct a gas emissions (Scope 1) mil t eq 69.98 95.23 105.96 - of which CO2 emissions from the electricity production and heat mil t 69.39 94.44 105.20 - of which other direct emissions due to electricity production (2) and other activities mil t eq 0.60 0.79 0.76. 
Total indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2, location based) mil t eq 5.37 5.08 5.00 - of which indirect emissions from electricity purchased from the network (civil uses, hydroelectric and thermoelectric plants) mil t eq 1.55 1.40 1.50 - of which indirect emissions deriving from technical losses from Enel’s distribution network and electricity system’s transmission network mil t eq 3.82 3.68 3.50. 
Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2, market based) (3) mil t eq 2.30 2.11 2.19. 
Total of other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) mil t eq 56.92 59.56 57.88 - of which indirect emissions deriving from the extraction and transport of fossil fuels, raw materials and waste (upstream) mil t eq 4.02 6.76 7.13 - of which indirect emissions deriving from the use of sold products (electricity) mil t eq 28.98 27.39 25.46 - of which indirect emissions deriving from the use of sold products (gas) mil t eq 23.92 25.41 25.29. 
Total CO2 avoided emissions (4) mil t 77.0 78.5 71.3 1 The methodology and sources considered for calculating greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1, 2, 3) are detailed in the following paragraph. The values for 2018 and 2017 were modified by adding the new calculation categories introduced in 2019. The Scope 2 emissions for electricity purchased from the grid were recalculated due to the expansion of the calculation basis. Regarding the year-over-year data comparison and the relative sums, the figures shown in the table regarding year-over-year data comparison and subset additions are calculated considering decimal digits that may not be disclosed in the table. 2 For all combustion processes from fossil sources, the production of N2O (GWP = 265) and CH4 (GWP = 28) expressed in CO2 equivalent are included. These values, not present in the 2017 and 2018 reporting, were recalculated for the previous two years. The calculation of the other activities also includes CO2 equivalent emissions from the combustion of diesel fuel in the generating sets, from the fuel of the company fleet, from the fuel used in the offices for heating and canteens, fluorinated gases and ODS, SF6 and NF3. 3 The values do not include the emissions from technical losses of the Enel distribution grid, which were calculated only as location based. 4 Avoided emissions are calculated as the sum of the emissions avoided in the different countries where Enel is present. The resulting value is the product of the generation of electricity obtained from a renewable or nuclear sources and the specific CO2 emissions from the thermoelectric generation of the country in which Enel is present.
Scope 1 emissions. 
In 2019, the direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) were equal to approximately 70 mil t, with a 27% decrease as compared to 2018 mainly due to reduced thermal generation and in particular a reduction in the coal component (-42% as com- pared to 2018). The considerable share of these emissions originates from the energy production in thermal pow- er plants fuelled by coal, oil & gas and combined cycles.
The percentage of emissions related to EU ETS is equal to 49.5% of the total Scope 1. Scope 1 also includes the CO2 emissions generated during the petrol and diesel combus- tion process in the engines of machines controlled by the 103-2 103-3 305-1 305-2 305-3 305-4 305-5 305-6


67. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
Company and by the combustion of diesel in the auxiliary motors used in renewable (hydroelectric) and nuclear tech- nologies, as well as the distribution of electricity. The com- bustion processes from fossil fuels also include the genera- tion of N2O (GWP=265) and CH4 (GWP=28) expressed as a. 
CO2 equivalent. These values were recalculated also for the two previous years.
Other direct CO2 equivalent emissions originated from the leakage to the atmosphere of SF6 (GWP=23,500) which occurs mainly within the scope of electricity distribution and, secondarily in energy power plants. SF6 is used in high and me- dium voltage electrical equipment due to its capacity to isolate and extinguish electric arcs and as of today it is irreplaceable for these applications. The quantities released to the atmosphere in 2019 as related to the entire perimeter of the Group amount to 8,367 kg, which equals 197 thousand t of CO2 equivalent. In percentage terms, SF6 contributes towards 0.28% of Scope 1 emissions, which represents an extremely limited amount. As regards Scope 1, Enel considers the emissions of leakage to the atmosphere of gases and mixtures containing greenhouse gas that were calculated by applying the average global warm- ing potential value of the family gases.
Scope 2 emissions. 
Scope 2 emissions concern the indirect emissions deriv- ing from the generation of the electricity purchased and consumed by the Company. Scope 2 includes the CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption taken from the electricity network for civil uses or for the gener- ation of energy in thermoelectric and hydroelectric plants.
Since 2016, all supplies of electricity for the offices and Ital- ian power plants come from renewable sources. This supply includes the issue of green certificates by the competent authority. The calculation of Scope 2 for the consumption of energy taken from the network is reported according to two points of view, one is location based, equal to 1.55 mil teq, and the other is market based, equal to 2.30 mil teq.
In compliance with the GHG protocol, this category includes the indirect emissions deriving from technical losses from Enel’s distribution network and the transmission network of the elec- tricity system in which the Group operates, calculated for all countries of operation for 2017-2019. The emissions caused by the losses were calculated based on the part of energy that exceeds the quota produced in the considered country, to avoid the double accounting of emissions already included in Scope 1. An additional division was made for the fraction distributed and sold in the retail market by Enel and for the share distribut- ed on behalf of other market competitors. These losses, as for. 
Scope 2 for Enel’s distribution and transmission network, were calculated based on the market share exceeding generation. In 2019, the total value of Scope 2 for distribution and transmission grid losses equalled approximately 3.8 mil teq (according to the location-based methodology).
Scope 3 emissions. 
Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in. 
Scope 2) that occur in Enel’s entire value chain, from gener- ation and transport to the sale of energy. They do not derive from controlled or owned sources.
With reference to the power generation business, an esti- mation was made of the fugitive emissions of methane from coal mining during extraction as well as emissions from the transport of the utilised fuels (coal and diesel) for the opera- tion of its plants.
In 2019, Enel expanded the categories used to account for. 
Scope 3 emissions and has recalculated the 2018 and 2017 values for its entire operational perimeter during those two years. As a result, a calculation is provided for the emissions related to the gas and electricity retail market in Europe and the electricity retail market in Latin America generated as a consequence of the use of sold products (electricity and gas) by end customers. The Group has assessed that for the gas in the European market, this value is approximately 23.9 mil teq, and that the value of emissions produced by the consumption of electricity by its customers is approximately 29.0 mil teq.
CO2 reduction targets. 
The Group’s ambition for leadership in the fight against cli- mate change was further strengthened in 2019: the target for the reduction of direct emissions from electricity production by 2020, which was set in 2015 at 350 g/kWheq of CO2, with a 25% reduction compared with 2007, was achieved one year early. In fact, 2019 closed with a reduction of 37%, to 296 g/ kWheq of CO2. This target has been certified by the Science. 
Based Target Initiative (SBTi) as consistent with the 2DS sce- nario (2-Degree Scenario) of the International Energy Agency (IEA), which defines an energy system development path and an emissions trajectory consistent with at least 50% chance of limiting the average global temperature rise to 2 °C in 2100.
As a result, the reduction target for 2020 has been upgraded in the new 2020-2022 Strategic Plan to 254 g/kWheq of CO2.


68 Sustainability Report 2019. 
In September 2019, Enel further enhanced its commitment by setting a new target for 2030, with which it undertook to reduce direct CO2 emissions per kWheq (Scope 1) by 70% compared with 2017. This target, for direct emissions from electricity pro- duction, is nearly three times as ambitious as the previous tar- get for 2020 and is fully aligned with the Paris Agreement. In addition, the objective has been certified by the Science Based. 
Target Initiative, ensuring consistency with the well below 2C pathway and the B2DS IEA’s scenario, which is currently the most ambitious certification criterion available for the utility sec- tor. They define an energy system development path and an emissions trajectory with at least 66% chance of limiting peak warming between present and 2100 to below 2 °C.
Scope 1(1) (g CO2/kWheq)
Scope 3 gas retail(1) (mil t CO2) 25.3 25.4 23.9 21.2 2017 2018 2019 2030 -16% 465 411 369 296 254 125 2007 2017 2018 2019 2020 2030(3) 2050. 
FULL decarbonization by 2050 -70%
Previous 2020 target(2) Target reached 350. 
This acceleration in Enel’s decarbonization roadmap is also a response to the appeal of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) as part of its effort to strengthen the global response to the climate change threat. Included in the special report, the appeal warns of the impacts of global warming of 1.5 °C above pre-industrial levels and the related global greenhouse gas emission pathways.
In parallel with direct emissions, Enel has set a new target, also certified by the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi), to also reduce indirect emissions associated with the consump- tion of gas by Enel’s end-user customers (indirect emissions from the use of products sold), which represent a significant source of indirect Scope 3 emissions, by 16% by 2030.
1 Includes direct emissions due exclusively to energy generation. Other direct emissions are not considered in the definition of the target as they are considered marginal and satisfy the exclusion criterion according to SBTi methodology that fixes a margin of 5% of the total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. 2 Scope 1 as of 2020 in line with the IEA 2DS scenario. As of 2020 the reduction in CO2 emissions is equal to 25% of the base year 2007. 3 Scope 1 by 2030, in line with the Well Below 2C path of the Science Based Targets initiative and with the IEA B2DS scenario. As of 2030 the reduction in CO2 emissions is equal to 70% of the base year 2017.
Scope 1(1) (g CO2/kWheq)
Scope 3 gas retail(1) (mil t CO2) 25.3 25.4 23.9 21.2 2017 2018 2019 2030 -16% 465 411 369 296 254 125 2007 2017 2018 2019 2020 2030(3) 2050. 
FULL decarbonization by 2050 -70%
Previous 2020 target(2) Target reached 350 1 Scope 3 related to the sale of gas in the “retail” market by 2030, in line with the 2C path of the Science Based Targets initiative.


69. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
Even if Enel constantly monitors Scope 2 emissions and is actively committed to their reduction, the Group has not set a specific reduction target, as they represent less than 4% of the total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in 2017 (base year of reference for new emission reduction targets an- nounced in 2019). Therefore they are considered marginal and fall within the criteria of exclusion according to the SBTi methodology, which fixes a margin of 5% of total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Furthermore, the Scope 2 emis- sions, being connected to specific emissions per country, are estimated as being decreasing progressively, as the gen- eration mix in countries in which Enel is present are chang- ing following the increase in electricity production from re- newable sources.
Financial, operational and environmental metrics. 
Financial metrics. 
The main metrics and the financial objectives used to measure and manage the risks and opportunities related to climate change are presented below. In 2019, Enel’s. 
EBITDA associated with low carbon emissions technolo- gies, services and solutions was equal to 1.62 billion eu- ros, with a growth of 10.7% in comparison to 2018. This results from greater renewable capacity, the expansion of the grids and the growth of final users. Furthermore, the. 
Capex technologies, services and solutions with low car- bon emissions has grown approximately 17.5% as com- pared to 2018, reaching 9.1 billion euros, equal to 92% of total Capex.
Revenues from coal-fired power plants, following the company’s strategic decisions that have inspired a sus- tainable business model that pursues, among others, the objectives of fighting climate change and decarbonization, are continuing to decrease. In particular, in 2019 revenues related to coal-fired power plants amounted to 2.8 billion euros (a 30.8% decrease as compared to 2018), equal to 3.5% of the Group’s total revenues. Furthermore, total revenues from thermal generation (coal, oil & gas and. 
CCGT) represent 12.8% of total revenues, equalling 10.3 billion euros (a 5.5% decrease as compared to 2018).
The “General Purpose SDG-linked bond”, which Enel launched on the US and European stock market, included specific targets related to the installed renewable capac- ity ratio and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, while contributed towards reaching 22% of the debt relat- ed to the sustainability objectives.
FINANCIAL METRIC UM 2019 2018 (1) 2019-2018 %
EBITDA from low-carbon products, services and technologies billion euros 16.2 14.6 1.6 10.7 % 91 91 --
Capex for low-carbon products, services and technologies (2) billion euros 9.1 7.8 1.3 17.5 % 92 91 1 -
Revenues from coal-fired power plants billion euros 2.8 4.0 -1.2 -30.0 % 3.5 5.3 -1.8 -
Revenues from thermal generation billion euros 10.3 10.9 -0.6 -5.5 % 12.8 14.4 -1.6 -
Revenues from nuclear power plants billion euros 1.3 1.1 0.2 20.1 % 1.6 1.4 0.2 -
Debt ratio with sustainability criteria (3) % 22 15 7 -
CO2 reference price euros 24.8 15.9 8.9 56.4 1 The 2018 data regarding EBITDA and Capex were reclassified due to a change to the calculation methodology for those metrics in comparison to low-carbon products and services. 2 The “low-carbon products, services and technologies” category considers the Enel Green Power, Infrastructure and Networks, Enel X and Market Business Lines (excluding the sale of gas). 3 The value was calculated considering the impact of the financial instruments, which include sustainability criteria for the entire gross debt.


70 Sustainability Report 2019 sions sources amounts to approximately 55% of total con- solidated production (a significant increase in comparison to 2018, equal to 49.2%), whereas it is equal to around 57% including the production from additional capacity managed according to the “Build, Sell and Operate” model.
Operational metrics. 
The following table presents the main operational metrics used for measuring Enel’s commitment to the fight against. 
Net electricity production in 2019 totalled 229.1 TWh, a decrease on 2018 that reflected an 18.7% decline in thermal production compared with the previous year, mainly due to a reduction in coal-fired production (-41.6% compared with 2018). The energy Enel produced in 2019 from zero emis-
ELECTRICITY VALUE CHAIN SEGMENT OPERATIONAL METRIC UM 2019 2018 2019-2018 %
GENERATION. 
Net efficient generation capacity (1) GW 84.3 85.6 -1.3 -1.5 - of which renewables % 50.0 45.8 4.2 - - of which thermoelectric % 46.1 50.4 -4.2 - - of which nuclear % 3.9 3.9 --
Net production (2) TWh 229.1 250.3 -21.2 -8.5 - of which renewables % 43.4 39.6 3.8 - - of which thermoelectric % 45.2 50.8 -5.6 - - of which nuclear % 11.5 9.6 1.9 -
New services. 
Demand response capacity MW 6,297 6,215 82 1.3. 
Storage capacity MW 110 70 40 57.1. 
Additional indicators. 
Average thermoelectric park efficiency (%) (3) % 42.0 40.1 1.9 -
Total direct fuel consumption Mtoe 30.1 37.0 -7.0 -18.9. 
DISTRIBUTION. 
Digitalization. 
End users with active smart meters no. 44,668,538 43,770,085 898,453 2.0. 
RETAIL. 
Electrification charging points for electric mobility (public and private) no. 79,565 48,967 30,598 62.5 1 Does not include managed capacity, equal to 3.7 GW in 2019 and 4.2 GW in 2018. 2 Does not include generation from managed capacity, equal to 10.2 TWh in 2019 and 9.7 TWh in 2018. 3 The % was calculated based on new methodology that does not consider the Italian oil & gas plants in the decommissioning phase/considered marginal. The values do not include consumption and generation for the cogeneration related to the Russian thermoelectric park. The average efficiency value is calculated based on the plants in the park and weighed based on generation values.
climate change along the electricity value chain.
302-1 EU1 EU2 EU3 EU11 EU30


71. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
Net electricity production (%) 2018. 
Hydroelectric 26.3%
Wind 8.8%
Geothermal and other 2.4%
Solar 2.0%
Nuclear 9.6%
CCGT 15.3%
Fuel oil and turbogas 9.9%
Coal 25.7%
Total 250.3 TWh. 
Hydroelectric 27.3%
Wind 11.7%
Geothermal and other 2.7%
Solar 1.7%
CCGT 19.6%
Fuel oil and turbogas 9.1%
Coal 16.4%
Nuclear 11.5% 2019 2018. 
Hydroelectric 32.5%
Wind 9.6%
Geothermal and other 1,0%
Solar 2.7. 
Nuclear 3.9. 
CCGT 17.5%
Fuel oil and turbogas 14,3%
Coal 18.5%
Hydroelectric 33.0%
Wind 12.3%
Geothermal and other 1.0%
Solar 3.7%
CCGT 17.8%
Fuel oil and turbogas 14.5%
Coal 13.8%
Nuclear 3.9% 2019. 
Net efficient installed capacity (%)
Total 84.3 GW. 
Total 229.1 TWh. 
Total renewable sources 43.4% Total conventional sources 56.6%
Total renewable sources 39.5% Total conventional sources 60.5%
Total renewable sources 50.0% Total conventional sources 50.0%
Total 85.6 GW. 
Total renewable sources 45.8% Total conventional sources 54.2%
Net electricity production (%) 2018. 
Hydroelectric 26.3%
Wind 8.8%
Geothermal and other 2.4%
Solar 2.0%
Nuclear 9.6%
CCGT 15.3%
Fuel oil and turbogas 9.9%
Coal 25.7%
Total 250.3 TWh. 
Hydroelectric 27.3%
Wind 11.7%
Geothermal and other 2.7%
Solar 1.7%
CCGT 19.6%
Fuel oil and turbogas 9.1%
Coal 16.4%
Nuclear 11.5% 2019 2018. 
Hydroelectric 32.5%
Wind 9.6%
Geothermal and other 1,0%
Solar 2.7. 
Nuclear 3.9. 
CCGT 17.5%
Fuel oil and turbogas 14,3%
Coal 18.5%
Hydroelectric 33.0%
Wind 12.3%
Geothermal and other 1.0%
Solar 3.7%
CCGT 17.8%
Fuel oil and turbogas 14.5%
Coal 13.8%
Nuclear 3.9% 2019. 
Net efficient installed capacity (%)
Total 84.3 GW. 
Total 229.1 TWh. 
Total renewable sources 43.4% Total conventional sources 56.6%
Total renewable sources 39.5% Total conventional sources 60.5%
Total renewable sources 50.0% Total conventional sources 50.0%
Total 85.6 GW. 
Total renewable sources 45.8% Total conventional sources 54.2%
At the end of December 2019, the Group’s total net effi- cient installed capacity was 84.3 GW, down 1.3 GW from 2018, mainly due to the sale of the Reftinskaya coal-fired power plant in Russia. This reduction was partially offset by the entry into operation of new renewable plants, mainly wind and solar in Spain, Mexico and the United States.
In order to contribute towards the decarbonization of its energy mix, in 2019 Enel increased its renewable in- stalled capacity by 3.6 GW, while reducing its coal capac- ity by 4.1 GW. As a result, installed capacity from zero emissions sources has reached 53.9% (50.0% consid- ering only renewable sources) of Enel’s total installed capacity in 2019, whereas it is equal to 55.8% (52.0% considering only renewable sources) when including ad- ditional capacity managed according to the “Build, Sell and Operate” model.


72 Sustainability Report 2019. 
In 2019, Enel played a fundamental role in developing new solutions to accelerate the process of energy transition through the development of 110 MW of storage capacity, corresponding to a growth of 57.1% in comparison to 2018, and 6.3 GW of demand response, 1.3% higher than 2018.
The digitalization of the electricity network, which has been identified as a key enabler able to positively influence cli- mate change through levers such as the integration of more renewable energy or an increase in energy efficiency, con- tinued being a priority for Enel also in 2019. In particular, in 2019 the total number of end users with active smart me- ters grew 2% as compared to the previous year, reaching 44.7 million in 2019.
Enel has also continued defining solutions for promoting the de- carbonization of other sectors, such as transport. The Company is in fact committed to developing electric mobility initiatives and promoting sustainable transport, installing 79,565 charging points in 2019, a 62.5% increase in comparison to 2018.
Environmental metrics related to climate change 303-3. 
The following table presents the environmental metrics re- lated to climate change, in addition to the greenhouse gas emissions previously described in the dedicated paragraph of this chapter.
ENVIRONMENTAL METRIC UM 2019 2018 2019-2018 %
Specific water requirements for total generation (1) l/kWheq 0.33 0.38 -0.05 -13.2. 
Withdrawal of water in water stressed areas (2) % 14.1 11.6 2.2 -
Generation with water consumption in water stressed areas (2) % 8 8 -- 1 Following Enel’s adoption of the new GRI 303 in 2018, requirements refer to the total amount of water withdrawn, including reuse of wastewater, necessary for plant operation. The specific requirement for total generation is calculated considering the total water consumption for thermoelectric and nuclear generation, compared to total thermoelectric (including the heat contribution in MWh), renewable and nuclear generation. This value does not include the water used for open-cycle cooling, which is returned to the original body of water. Consumption is calculated as the difference between the water withdrawn and the water returned. 2 The World Resources Institute (WRI) has defined a “Water Stressed Area” as an area where the annual amount of water available per capita is less than 1,700 m3.


73. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
Targets. 
The following table shows the main operational targets included in the 2020-2022 Strategic Plan that reflect. 
Enel’s role in the fight against climate change along the entire electricity value chain, in addition to the green- house gas emissions reduction targets as described in the previous section.
ELECTRICITY VALUE CHAIN SEGMENT DESCRIPTION OF THE TARGET UM 2022. 
GENERATION. 
Net efficient generation capacity (1) GW 90.7 - of which renewables % 60 - of which thermoelectric % 37 - of which nuclear % 3. 
Net production (2) TWh 249.3 - of which renewables % 57.5 - of which thermoelectric % 32 - of which nuclear % 10.5. 
New services. 
Demand response capacity GW 10.1. 
Storage capacity MW 439. 
DISTRIBUTION. 
Digitalization. 
Installed smart meters 2.0 mil 28.8. 
RETAIL. 
Electrification. 
Charging points for electric mobility (public and private) no. 736,000 1 Does not include managed capacity, equal to 5.6 GW in 2022. 2 Does not include generation from managed capacity.
Furthermore, the following assumptions were defined: > EBITDA incidence for low-carbon products, services and technologies equal to approximately 91% in 2022; > Capex incidence for low-carbon products, services and technologies on the total more than 90% in 2020 -2022; > incidence of sustainable financial mechanisms equal to approximately 43% in 2022.
Finally, Enel is committed to improving its performance in oth- er environmental aspects concerning climate change, fixing ambitious targets, such as the 50% reduction in water re- quirements for the electricity production process by 2030. For more information about Enel’s environmental performance, refer to the “Environmental sustainability” chapter of the Sus- tainability Report 2019.


74 Sustainability Report 2019. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2021 TARGETS 2019 RESULTS CATEGORIES. 
Innovation of large infrastructure, mainly through the digitalization of distribution networks, smart meters and charging stations 46.9 mil users with active smart meters1 5.4 billion euros invested in digitalization in 2019-2021 455 thousand charging points 44.7 mil users with active smart meters2. 
Value no longer reported3. 
Over 79 thousand charging points4. 
Operational efficiency. 
Technologies and digitalization. 
Climate change. 
Partnerships. 
Cabling ratio 67% 65%5 Operational efficiency. 
Environmental management. 
Safety management. 
Network losses (Italy)6 Value lower than 4.9% 4,7% Operational efficiency. 
Environmental management 2019 2021 Operational improvement for a better service Plan. 
Energy transition - Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms (1/2) 9
11 102-15 9
7 9


75. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms. 
ESG backbones Our pillars 1 Includes the replacement of smart meters. 2 Includes 13.1 million 2.0 smart meters 3 Since 2019, digitalization investments have been included within total capital expenditure destined for operational efficiency. They are therefore no longer reported separately. 4 Public and private charging points installed. 5 Excludes Eletropaulo. The 2019 result including Eletropaulo is 60.1%. 6 Includes the technical losses (Joule effect) and non-technical losses (energy theft) of e-distribuzione (Italy). 7 Includes 28.8 million 2.0 smart meters 8 Target redefined following the inclusion of Eletropaulo.
2020 2022 Electrification Plan. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2022 TARGETS CATEGORIES. 
Innovation of large structures, mainly through the digitalization of distribution grids, smart meters and charging stations ~47 mil users with active smart meters7 736 thousand charging points4. 
Operational efficiency. 
Technologies and digitalization. 
Climate change. 
Partnerships. 
Cabling ratio (km of cable lines/km of lines in total) 64%8 Operational efficiency. 
Environmental management. 
Safety management. 
Network losses (Italy)5 4.7% Operational efficiency. 
Environmental management. 
New producer connections (Italy and Spain)
New producer connections (power) (Italy and Spain) 280 thousand new connections 4.3 GW. 
Operational efficiency. 
Climate change 9
11 7
9 13 7
9 7
9


76 Sustainability Report 2019. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2021 TARGETS 2019 RESULTS CATEGORIES. 
Incentivization of transactional operations in the web/app customer area1 17 mil transactions 5.3 mil transactions Technologies and digitalization. 
Social inclusion. 
Customers. 
Customer Satisfaction Index for Enel Energia SpA in the Italian free market 93% in 2019 90.2%2 Customers. 
New brand positioning inspired by the concepts of simplicity, transparency, proximity and reliability: > Flexible, more dynamic offers for customer service > Customer relationship increasingly personalised and more digital. 
Commercial offers based on the concept of flexibility thanks to the new 1G and 2G meters 100% renewable energy offers. 
App update: single interface for management use and customer involvement 325,000 contracts (associated with “Ore FREE” [FREE Hours] and “Notte e festivi” [Nighttime and holidays] offers) 1,792,599 contracts 1.2 million Enel Energia customers who downloaded the app. 
Technologies and digitalization. 
Social inclusion. 
Customers 2019 2021 Operational improvement for a better service Plan. 
Energy transition - Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms (2/2) 9
102-15 11 11 7
9


77. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms. 
ESG backbones Our pillars 1 Italy, transactions in the customer web area (www.enel.it) and the Enel Energia app. 2 The value is calculated on a scale of 1 to 100. For 2019, the values have been estimated on the basis of established trends. Following a change of methodology, from 2018, the CSI (Customer Satisfaction Index) value is determined annually rather than half-yearly as it was in 2017 and 2016. 3 This indicator measures the quality perceived by the customer on a monthly basis compared to the last contact with Enel Energia. 4 This indicator measures the number of users who use the digital services offered by Enel Energia at least once during the year (app, personal web area, chat in public and private web areas).
2020 2022 Electrification Plan. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2022 TARGETS CATEGORIES. 
Voice of customer for ongoing improvement. 
Customer Satisfaction Index for Enel Energia SpA in the Italian free market. 
Perceived quality - value between 1 and 53 ~91%
Value between 4 and 5. 
Technologies and digitalization. 
Social inclusion. 
Customers. 
Digitalization of the customer relationship (customers who use digital services - millions of users/year)4 6.9 in 2022 Customers. 
Technologies and digitalization. 
Social inclusion. 
Inclusive offers dedicated to elderly, weak, destitute, marginalised, vulnerable, ex social bonus customers “Over 65” offer: remodelling of the offer dedicated to customers over 65 on all Enel channels. 
Customers. 
Social inclusion. 
Paperless: online sales, archiving and digitalization of documents, digital bills, interactive bills > Digitalization of some credit documents (reminders and warnings) > Increasing use of tablets by the sales force to sign contracts. 
Customers. 
Technologies and digitalization. 
Climate change 9
11 9
11 9
11 9
11 12


78 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Enel’s constant attention to the customer and commitment to providing quality pro- ducts and services are important aspects of the Group’s relationship with its custo- mers in the various countries in which it operates. Reliability, safety and continuity of distribution, together with quality, effectiveness and transparency in the sale of energy characterise each stage of the relationship with customers.
In 2019, 504 TWh were transported on the Group’s distribution grid (484 TWh in 2018) and the final number of energy and gas customers was almost 70 million, slightly down on 2018 (71 million). Energy sales amounted to 302 TWh in 2019, up by more than 6 TWh (+2%) on 2018. Enel also manages a demand response capacity of around 6 GW.
Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms. 
Sustainability Report At a Glance Performance indicators. 
Annual Report 504 TWh electricity transported on the Group’s distribution network, up by 4% on 2018 302 TWh energy sold, up by 2% on 2018. 
Almost 70 million electricity and gas customers 2,230,029 km of distribution network. 
Distribution network (km) per geographical area (total km 2,230,029)
High voltage Medium voltage Low voltage 1 In Italy there are also 22 km of high-voltage network.
Italy1 - 31% 69%
Iberia 5% 27% 68%
Latin America 6% 37% 57%
Romania 3% 61% 36%
Total (%) 2% 40% 58%
Total (km) 46,606 887,439 1,295,984. 
Electricity market customers Gas market customers. 
Italy 23,689,113 4,155,689. 
Iberia 10,634,958 1,648,705. 
Latin America 26,661,440 -
Romania 3,072,945 52,142. 
Total 64,058,456 5,856,536 102-7 EU3 EU4


79. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms. 
ESG backbones Our pillars. 
Operational excellence and distribution quality. 
The distribution network is the crossroads of change all over the world, allowing existing and future actors to connect and enabling numerous new services to be provided thanks to its quality, efficiency, size and reach.
Smart technology allows the development of a platform business model, managing a more complex and dynamic energy system with increasing generation loads distribut- ed from renewable sources, contributing to boost the re- silience of infrastructure in the face of increasing adverse weather phenomena and cyber security risks, as well as promoting sustainable electrification for all users in the various regions where the Company operates. A new con- cept of circularity has been launched which allows value to be drawn from waste but above all action to be taken from the design stages of products/processes. A major effort has also been made to promote sustainable cities, for example by launching the “Urban Futurability” project.
The continuous improvement of infrastructure therefore becomes central to the socio-economic development of communities, as well as for the daily life of people. This is fully consistent with the commitments made in relation to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals and in particular. 
SDG 9 “Infrastructure and innovation”.
It is Enel’s precise responsibility to ensure a continuous and safe supply of energy to the national electrical sys- tems of the countries in which it operates as a distributor.
The quality of the supply is closely linked to the reliability and efficiency of the transmission and distribution infra- structure, which must be able to meet the required levels of demand. Coordinating with the other entities that op-
The uninterrupted energy supply to homes, hospitals and companies is guaranteed by the thousands of Enel people working in its plants and on the grid, supported by a large number of people experimenting with agile working in parti- cular to provide customer support.
“All together we’ll succeed”
WE’RE AT WORK AND ALL TOGETHER WE’LL SUCCEED. 
DMA EU (former EU7) 103-2 103-3 DMA EU (former EU23)


80 Sustainability Report 2019 erate in various capacities on the grid infrastructure, Enel carries out continuous grid development and efficiency measures. Maintenance and modernisation work on the grid is carried out to reduce the number and duration of service interruptions. This also allows real-time monitor- ing, guaranteeing timely intervention to repair faults and ensure an optimum energy supply. In this context, remote control systems play a key role, allowing local operating centres to carry out all the operations necessary to ensure continuity of the electricity service provided. Even from the point of view of network losses, digitalization of the infrastructure and the use of a remote management sys- tem, combined with the use of electronic smart meters, allow greater effectiveness to be achieved in monitoring energy balances, while reducing fraud and enabling new services that market operators can offer to customers.
After several years of experience with smart grids, Enel has launched a new enabling technology known as Net- work Digital Twin®, a 3D digital model that faithfully replicates the electricity infrastructure, from its individual physical elements to the most complex operational dy- namics. It is a large-scale application of Industry 4.0 tech- nology, which integrates network automation, the Internet of Things and 3D modelling with advanced data manage- ment (machine learning, artificial intelligence, etc.). In addition to improving network management, it allows an open ‘ecosystem’ to be created to encourage information sharing for the benefit of people and cities, improving the quality of the service, the relationship and the involve- ment of all stakeholders. Thanks to the advanced plat- forms, therefore, more information can be made available and the data from the electricity grid can be accessed in a more timely and detailed manner, promoting awareness of the use of energy, efficiency and savings. As part of the “Urban Futurability” project, in October 2019, the dis- trict of Vila Olímpia in São Paulo, Brazil, saw the launch of Latin America’s first Network Digital Twin, which improves urban resilience and creates opportunities for an extraordinary range of new services and benefits for the cities of the future on an infinitely larger scale that is more compatible with the gigantic dimensions that demo- graphic projections envisage for megacities by 2050. This project shows that the digitalization of electricity grids, buildings and urban infrastructure can take place in a real living laboratory. Citizens, business owners, municipal- ities and universities can co-create innovative solutions that integrate infrastructure with local needs, such as mo- bility, safety, waste reduction and the urban environment.
Smart meters are the cornerstone of distribution net- work innovation and digitalization work, the driving force behind urban redevelopment and fundamental enablers of advanced home automation. From the beginning, their installation has been accompanied by specific information and awareness campaigns, given that energy savings of 10% can be achieved by using this technology, particular- ly thanks to the real-time availability of energy use infor- mation. By the end of 2019, 44.7 million end users had an active smart meter and 13.1 million end users had second generation meters (CE2G). In addition to transmitting de- tailed measurement data (daily four-hour load curves) to the concentrator, the latter provide a customer-dedicated communication channel called “Chain 2”, which allows data to be sent between the CE2G and in-home devic- es. Greater transparency of information relating to ener- gy use, energy exchanges with the grid and production in the case of “prosumer” users is possible and the de- velopment of the home automation and active demand market is encouraged. Customers therefore become pro- tagonists and have the opportunity to participate in the energy market and be remunerated for offering flexibility to the electricity system, reducing or increasing energy use or production/input. In particular, “Chain 2” provides


81. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms. 
ESG backbones Our pillars access to dedicated demand response and energy effi- ciency services (including a warning that available power is being exceeded and the limiter is being activated, thus providing a service that extends beyond simply displaying the energy and power used and produced), the promotion of awareness and home automation and the customi- sation of tariffs, allowing the introduction of innovative forms of contract.
Enel has also embarked on a challenging path aimed at re- designing the value chain by adopting a circular econ- omy model, to reduce environmental impacts by maxim- ising the recovery of end-of-life products and materials.
The first example is the “Circular Smart Meter” project launched in Italy and Brazil, which aims to reduce the envi- ronmental footprint of smart meters through, for example, the end-of-life use of their materials, starting with plastic and copper. A proactive “circularity by design” approach which integrates circularity right from the design stage, as minimising the use of new natural resources also cuts costs throughout the life cycle (from design, manufacture and operation to scrapping), creating new efficiencies. In designing and building the “Circular Smart Meter”, en- vironmental and economic impacts had to be measured in order to identify the most relevant components and redesign them in a circular perspective, recovering and regenerating waste such as plastic, copper, steel, etc. en- hancing them for a second life as new network assets, and finally exploring innovative tracking techniques for reverse logistics. A long and complex process from the engineering point of view, including comparative analyses. 
Italy: Puglia Active Network (PAN)
PAN is intended to improve performance and enable innovative management of the electricity network, integrating the energy produced by local renewable distributed generation plants and guaranteeing customers constant access to information on consumption trends. A 170 million euros project in response to the NER 300 European call for proposals involving almost an entire region: 29,300 km of medium-voltage networks (91% of the total in Puglia), 102 primary substations, around 8,000 secondary nodes, 45,000 distributed generation assets. In particular, the project provides for: > boosting the medium-voltage electricity network for greater efficiency and safety; > the regional development of an electric vehicle charging infrastructure integrated into the distribution network, to promote a new model of eco-sustainable mobility with zero emissions; > monitoring of energy consumption with the Smart Info+ kit for low-voltage zero-emission supplies.
and laboratory tests, to guarantee the same reliability as traditional meters. In Brazil, the “Circular Smart Meter” is a virtuous example of how to promote a closed-loop within the value chain by reusing waste material within the same industrial cycles to produce the new generation meter. The short-term goal is to apply the methodology developed to other network assets as well, measuring the expected benefits in economic, environmental and social terms and then scaling the methodology to other busi- ness operating processes.
Rethinking one’s business by applying an ecosystem and circular logic also means identifying new opportunities to put customers at the centre, offering customised prod- ucts and services, to build and strengthen a relationship based on trust, transparency and rational use of energy, particularly in innovative ways. Customer involvement also requires constant listening: Enel wants to know what its stakeholders think of services it offers and their customer experience. For this reason, it carries out sur- veys to measure the degree of satisfaction and uses spe- cific communication channels in the various countries in which it operates, in accordance with legal and regulatory requirements. In Italy, for example, there is a telephone infrastructure and innovative services that allow response capability to be increased, thus providing information to customers more quickly and accurately. For example, the e-Notify service is available for e-distribuzione, which al- lows dedicated communications and alerts to be sent to customers, as well as the Eddie chatbot, a virtual assistant designed to inform and communicate with customers.


82 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Quality of service and promotion of responsible consumption. 
The leadership of a company like Enel involves customer care and attention to providing a quality service, not only in the supply of electricity and/or natural gas, but also and above all in the intangible aspects of the service related to customer perception and satisfaction. The multiple areas of activity include: the development of new contact methods and channels; the improvement of back-office processes; monitoring of complaints and enquiries in order to reduce processing times and ensure proper management; analysis of customer reports, in order to understand customer per- ception and any critical issues in progress, so that the appro- priate corrective actions can be implemented immediately without compromising overall customer satisfaction.
In 2019, Enel promoted the adoption of new solutions and innovative technologies aimed at improving the customer experience and also involving startups and stakeholders, as well as sharing best practices in order to spread them to the various countries of operation with specific market-related customisations, thus minimising time-to-market. Relations with consumer associations have been intensified, exploring collaboration opportunities aimed at improving the relation- ship with customers and working together to create services that increasingly respond to new needs and requirements, without neglecting the weaker sections of the population.
In April 2019, the Company launched the “Mass customi- zation & inclusion” challenge, aimed at gathering innovative ideas and proposals for customised products and services considering diversity and inclusion issues. The winning pro- posal was the “e-domorent” project for the sustainable use of home appliances. In addition, four creative sessions were organised involving over 100 people from the retail area, in. 
Bogotá and Bucharest, aimed at finding new and innovative ideas to launch cutting-edge solutions, products and servic- es on the market.
Finally, the main lines of action for the next three years, con- cerning customer centrality, circular economy, digitalization and sustainability, were identified and shared. Putting the customer at the centre means developing new relationship models that promote listening and involvement to ensure the continuous improvement of services. Enel also under- takes to enhance the contribution that each individual cus- tomer can make to decreasing their impact on the planet, adopting consumption styles geared towards the use of renewable energy, recycling and reuse, sharing and reduc- ing waste, starting with paper contracts and bills. A push to simplify all stages of the “customer journey” by disseminat- ing innovative services that support the customer, from the signing of new exclusively paperless contracts and simple interactions to check energy use and receive digital bills, to electronic payments, including instalment plans, through vir- tual assistants, apps and chatbots. Enel’s commitment to the right energy transition for everyone puts it at the fore- front in offering innovative and inclusive services for elderly customers, weak, destitute, marginalised, vulnerable fami- lies or disabled people (Pedius, Braille bill, compatible sites for the visually impaired).
For further information about customer management in the various countries, in addition to the following paragraphs, please refer to the individual Sustainability Reports of Enel. 
Group’s subsidiaries.


83. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms. 
ESG backbones Our pillars. 
Customer satisfaction 102-43 102-44 103-2 103-3 417-1. 
The attention paid to quality of service issues is confirmed again this year by the results of customer satisfaction sur- veys carried out in all the countries where Enel operates as an electricity vendor or distributor.
In Italy, the customer satisfaction index (CSI) for 2019 was 92.41 for the regulated market (92.4 in 2018) and 90.21 for the free market (90.2 in 2018). In addition, monthly satis- faction surveys are carried out among customers who have received an answer to a written or verbal complaint. The survey is conducted by telephone interview after a response has been sent or the customer has been contacted by tele- phone.
In Iberia, through the subsidiary Endesa, efficient customer service is the main value pursued in the relationship with customers, striving for maximum efficiency in the opera- tion of its customer service channels, tools and platforms through a process of constant innovation and improvement.
20 key indicators are monitored every month to ensure re- spect for the improvements identified during the previous year. The CSI has been improving over the years, reaching 7.32 for the free market (7.2 in 2018) and remaining at 7.2 for the regulated market in 2019.
In Romania, customers can voice their opinions via the con- tact centre, e-mail and website. The information is gathered once a month and the results used to improve the quality of service and business processes. The general satisfaction index was 853 (87 in 2018) for the free market and 894 for the regulated market (86 in 2018).
In Latin America, customer satisfaction indicators are a fundamental consideration when defining strategies and designing new products. In Brazil, customer satisfaction is measured using a specific index calculated by the Brazilian association of electricity distributors (ABRADEE - Associação 1 The value is calculated on a scale of 1 to 100. For 2019, the values have been estimated on the basis of established trends. Following a change of methodology, from 2018, the CSI value is determined annually rather than half-yearly as it was in 2017 and 2016.
2 The value is calculated on a scale of 1 to 10.
3 The value is calculated on a scale of 1 to 100. The fall recorded on the free market in 2019 relates to the replacement of the customer management IT platform with a more advanced one (SAP platform). The learning curve of the telephone operators was reflected in the quality of service provided.
4 The value is calculated on a scale of 1 to 100.
Brasileira de Distribuidores de Energia Elétrica). The index is determined after conducting a sample survey among cus- tomers on aspects such as: energy supply, information and communication, utility bills, customer support and image.
In Peru as well, surveys are carried out, using structured and standardised questionnaires, among people who have used the contact point services. Finally, in Colombia, there is a customer satisfaction form designed to measure market perception of the supply of products and services in order to direct initiatives and the respective resources more efficient- ly. The quality satisfaction index (ISCAL), the key elements of which include the commercial relationship and billing, has remained at excellent levels in recent years, thanks to the development of the customer relationship plan.
Management of complaints 103-3 102-17 102-43 103-2. 
In all the countries where Enel operates, customers have var- ious channels available through which to make a complaint or request information (post, website, toll-free number). Enel constantly monitors the feedback received, in order to un- derstand the customer’s perception and any ongoing critical issues and to implement the appropriate corrective actions.
In Italy, for example, through the company Enel Energia, the. 
Enel Group monitors the commercial quality of all its contact channels, systematically monitoring the sales and manage- ment processes. The goal is to ensure the fulfilment of the requirements in compliance with current legislation, priva- cy and rules protecting the freedom and dignity of workers.
Customer reports are managed through dedicated channels and analysed by a specific working group so that the most suitable actions are taken, both at the complaint manage- ment stage and, above all, in preventing the underlying causes. This year there was a reduction in the time required to manage the complaint, which fell below the minimum times required by ARERA (Regulatory Authority for Energy,
Networks and the Environment) which simultaneously in- creased the satisfaction of complaining customers.
In Iberia, complaints are managed both centrally by the “At- ención de Reclamaciones” (complaint management) unit and locally through six local units, in order to prevent any disruptions and determine the appropriate tools needed to


84 Sustainability Report 2019 resolve them, thus improving the efficiency of the process.
2019 marked the beginning of a new form of digitalized com- plaint management providing an end-to-end view of the pro- cess, made even more efficient by a shorter management schedule, resulting in a more positive customer perception.
In Romania, customers can send reports using different channels: dedicated e-mail address for complaints and re- quests, website, direct call centre helpline or visiting a Punto. 
Enel.
In Colombia, a digital transformation of the process has started and an automated procedure (RPA - Robot Process. 
Automation) adopted for the management of complaints about energy consumption, in order to speed up the process of responding to customers.
In Brazil, a customer experience team analyses the causes of complaints using analytical tools (for example, geograph- ical analysis of complaints), surveys and forums with cus- tomers themselves, to develop improvement actions.
Care of vulnerable customers. 
DMA EU (former EU23) 102-43 102-44 103-2 103-3. 
Enel is attentive to people’s needs, improving and main- taining access to electricity in the most disadvantaged areas and the poorest people. All the countries in which the Group operates in fact provide forms of support, often linked to state initiatives, which make it easier for certain sections of the population to pay electricity and gas bills, thus allowing equal access to energy.
In Italy, since 2008 for the electricity sector and 2009 for the gas sector, a discount has been provided for domes- tic customers experiencing financial hardship and – for the electricity sector only – for customers who use life-saving electro-medical equipment (known as the “social bonus”).
The bonus is funded with state resources and specific tar- iff components determined by the Authority. Applications for the bonus are handled by the local town council and – if approved – customers are awarded a credit on their bill that varies according to their income and number of people in the family. In 2019, the social bonus was award- ed to approximately 512,000 customers of Enel Energia and approximately 450,000 customers of Servizio Elet- trico Nazionale. In general, protection is provided in case of disconnection of the electricity supply: in the event of non-payment, customers who have an electronic meter are not cut off completely but their available power is reduced and only cut off completely only if the default persists.
In Iberia, the social bonus regulation, which came into force in 2018, with discounts of 25%, 40% or even 100% depending on the level of vulnerability of the customer, was consolidated. At the end of 2019, Endesa paid the bonus to 435,484 customers: 228,821 vulnerable and 206,663 seri- ously vulnerable customers.
Furthermore, several agreements have been signed since 2015 with local/regional authorities and service sector or- ganisations to avoid cuts in supplies to customers recog- nised as “vulnerable” by social services. Currently there are 272 agreements in force, including 6 with autonomous regions and 5 with federations of municipalities. In 2019, 36,723 households benefited from these agreements, which are estimated to correspond to over 110,000 people.
In addition, since 2018 Endesa has offered its customers in vulnerable groups the opportunity to pay their bills in in-


85. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms. 
ESG backbones Our pillars terest-free instalments and has specific support channels.
Finally, working with the Endesa Foundation and in collab- oration with the Red Cross and Ecodes, Endesa has been promoting an energy volunteering project since 2015 to support specific vulnerable situations by providing training on efficient consumption, personalised advice and taking money-saving and safety measures in homes. In 2018- 2019, the project benefited 2,410 households, 772 of them in 2019. The project has been re-launched for 2020. During 2019, Endesa signed an agreement with the city of Mala- ga to protect vulnerable families at risk of social exclusion, making it easier for them to receive financial help from so- cial services by trialling an innovative digital platform (Con- fía project).
In Romania, tailor-made solutions are constantly being sought to meet the needs of the most vulnerable custom- er groups. Enel has a presence in the Ferentari district of. 
Bucharest, one of the most disadvantaged. By appointing a trusted person from that community, called an “energy mediator”, Enel has been able to gain a better understand- ing of local needs to ensure a more appropriate offer of services. The energy mediator also helps the population of the neighbourhood to perform seemingly simple tasks such as reading meters, signing contracts or accompanying local people to the Enel shop when necessary.
In Brazil, customers who rely on life-preserving elec- tro-medical equipment have priority over other customers on the telephone channel and their requests are monitored and promptly supported.
In addition, Enel appropriately manages customers with special subsidies offered by the government, such as the “Social Electricity Tariff” (TSEE) subsidy provided for low-income people.
In 2019, Enel promoted several initiatives that focused on energy efficiency aimed especially at low-income custom- ers: the replacement of fridges and lights, seminars on re- sponsible energy use and household budgeting, inclusion in the TSEE lists.
In Chile, Enel Distribución Chile’s “oficina móvil” (mobile office) continued to contribute to caring for the most vul- nerable customers, bringing the company closer to their homes.
In Peru, the “More light, more life” project aims to bring electricity to developing areas of housing. In 2019, Enel carried out work in 94 areas through this programme, in- volving more than 190 thousand households and contribut- ing to their well-being, safety and quality of life.
A transparent relationship with customers. 
DMA EU (former EU24) 102-16 103-2 103-3 417-1. 
In the various companies of the Enel Group, in accordance with the Code of Ethics, all contracts, communications ad- dressed to customers and advertising messages must be: > clear and simple, written in language that is as close as possible to that normally used by the people to whom they are addressed; > compliant with current regulations, without resorting to elusive or incorrect practices; > complete, without neglecting any information needed by the customer to make a decision; > accessible to the customer.
In all the countries where the Group operates, specific cus- tomer service channels have been set up: physical, tele- phone and online, to keep customers constantly informed about the features of the products and services offered. Ac- cess to information has also been strengthened through the use of social media channels, such as Facebook and Twitter, and specific apps. In order to guarantee that communica- tion with customers is truly transparent, correct and effec- tive, Enel undertakes to ensure that any cultural, linguistic, illiteracy or disability barriers do not affect equal access to information for customers. Services dedicated to deaf peo- ple have been developed in Spain and Peru, thanks to the collaboration with the Italian startup Pedius, which has been operating in Italy since 2018.
In Italy, in addition to the www.enel.it website, which allows customer relationships to be set up and maintained for com- mercial and management purposes, there is a specific Enel. 
Energia app designed to manage users quickly and easily, providing access to all the data relating to bills, usage, pay- ment status, etc. It also allows the services associated with the various supplies to be activated or changed, information to be received about new offers and promotions, while also providing access to the dedicated loyalty program.
As part of the “Enel Social Services” programme, created in collaboration with the Prime Minister’s Office, the National. 
Electricity Service sends the bill in Braille to blind custom- ers. There is also a chat function for deaf customers on the. 
Enel Energia website (www.enel.it). Also on the Enel Ener- gia website there is a guide with visual and audio contents explaining the bill.


86 Sustainability Report 2019. 
In Iberia, the www.endesa.com website provides various functions and payment methods, a section dedicated to pri- vacy management, a chat function available on the app and innovative ways of viewing usage and invoices. All com- mercial communications, invoices and information sent by. 
Endesa to its customers can be received in two languages:
Spanish and Catalan. The www.endesa.com website is also available in Spanish, Catalan and English. In addition, Endesa is committed to overcoming any physical, social and language barriers, particularly through digitalization. Customer contact points are all located on the ground floor to provide access for people with disabilities. Finally, Endesa has a special unit to manage relations with consumer associations and public bod- ies, which holds regular meetings and participates in various industry forums with a view to adopting increasingly appropri- ate measures for the continuous improvement of customer relations.
In Romania, the www.enel.ro website has introduced an. 
English version for non-Romanian customers. In 2019, a part- nership was established with Pago, a bill payment app, with an Enel customer loyalty offer.
In Chile, new digital platforms have been developed to pro- vide the same information and the same level of customer service, regardless of whether customers choose to be as- sisted in person, remotely or digitally.
In Brazil, there is a wide range of customer communication channels, with 80% of contacts made through digital chan- nels. Using the website at www.enel.com.br, text messaging and the app, customers can access information and services while maintaining a transparent relationship with Enel. They can also communicate with Enel through the main social me- dia (Facebook, Twitter or Instagram), using specific applica- tions for each social network, and an assistant can also be contacted via chat (WhatsApp, Messenger, DM-Direct Mes- sage or e-mail). Virtual assistant Elena, a WhatsApp chatbot, is also available to interact with customers and show them the easiest way to fulfil their requirements.
Enel complies with current customer privacy regulations in all the countries where it operates. The Company also under- takes to monitor all third-party companies that may be in a position to use customers’ personal data. To this end, dedi- cated clauses are included in contracts with partners who use personal data to carry out specific activities, for example sales services or customer satisfaction surveys. Customer data are an expression of the individual’s personality and identity, therefore they must be treated with due caution and guaran- tees. Enel considers personal data to be a shared asset and a corporate asset at the same time. The Group has therefore appointed a Data Protection Officer to guarantee full respect for the privacy of all the individuals with whom it interacts. For further details, see the “Sound governance” chapter.
Energy-saving commercial offers, products and services. 
DMA EU (former EU24) 103-2 103-3. 
In all the countries where Enel operates, a wide range of high energy performance products has been launched to guarantee savings in terms of both consumption and emis- sions.
In 2019, Endesa X established itself as one of the main play- ers in the solar self-consumption market in Spain. Thanks to the experience gained and its technical knowledge, it sup- ports customers in enhancing the technology needed to ac- celerate the efficient consumption of energy, contributing to achieve clean and renewable energy, savings of up to 50% on annual electricity bills and a reduction in CO2 emissions into the atmosphere. The photovoltaic projects contracted with Endesa X in 2019 will lead to a reduction in emissions from customers of up to 13,500 t/year.
Furthermore, together with Amazon, the e-Home Business. 
Line has developed Homix, a smart home device, currently available in Italy and Spain in the Amazon, Enel X and Endesa. 
Energía stores. Homix learns usage habits and independent- ly suggests ways to fulfil personal requirements and simplify the life of families through the integrated management of heating, safety and lighting, in order to optimise times and consumption. The touch screen integrated with Alexa, Ama-


87. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms. 
ESG backbones Our pillars zon’s cloud-hosted smart voice service, is designed to offer maximum ease of use. Using the voice commands, you can ask Alexa to increase or decrease the temperature of the apartment, set reminders for daily activities, ask for informa- tion about electricity and gas bills, provide updates on traffic conditions, weather or access to Amazon Music.
Finally, as part of the development of electric mobility solu- tions suitable for all types of customers, Endesa has con- tinued to establish agreements with large companies to promote the use of electric mobility for their vehicles. For example, Endesa X and Pascual have reached an agree- ment for the installation of 76 charging points between the company’s 27 sales offices, the 6 factories and the central offices located in Madrid; as well as for use of the public charging infrastructure, managed by this company across the country. This project aims to achieve a 20% reduction in. 
CO2 by the end of 2020.
In Italy, the “Piano Italia” project to promote the electrifica- tion of mobility and sustainable transport is intended to plan and install a network of 28,000 charging points for electric vehicles by 2023.
Also Italian is the “Energy efficiency for condominiums” project of Enel X, aimed at all centrally heated condomini- ums of more than eight units that are interested in carrying out energy redevelopment and efficiency work on the com- mon parts of the building. In 2019, the new “Ore FREE” of- fer was also launched, which further contributed to ensuring the centrality of the customer in the offer of Enel Energia services. With Ore FREE, customers use only energy from renewable sources for their household consumption and can choose the time slot in which to take advantage of three hours of free energy. This important change is the first step towards achieving more responsible consumption and great- er attention to increasingly sustainable behaviour thanks to the new open meter services.
In Brazil, numerous energy efficiency projects have been launched to improve people’s awareness of energy con- sumption, promoting the replacement of obsolete electrical equipment (fridges, freezers, lighting), with a significant im- pact on energy consumption and on improving energy effi- ciency in homes. In 2019, around 267,000 customers ben- efited from educational projects on responsible energy use.
Mobile units equipped with an explanatory model showing how energy is generated, transmitted and distributed trav- elled to various areas of the country to explain its operation and simulate different types of energy use with fun activi- ties for all ages. The results of the programme in 2019 were 46,813 MWh/year of energy saved and 8,812 kW of demand avoided. The energy saved is sufficient to supply 26,000 homes for a year.
Enel X. 
DMA EU (former EU7)
Set up in 2017 with the aim of guiding the transformation of the energy sector by providing value-added services for customers, Enel X operates according to an open strategy based on digitalization, sustainability and innovation and acts as a circularity accelerator, both with its suppliers and cus- tomers and on the market. In particular, Enel X: > involves customers, commercial and industrial, in the energy transition, allowing them to save costs and mon- etise their flexibility by offering sustainable and innova- tive solutions; > supports the electrification of cities and energy efficien- cy, creating an ecosystem of digitalized infrastructure and innovative services; > simplifies the management of home services, creating a sustainable ecosystem accessible to all.
A model that allows urban ecosystems to be connected with industrial districts and production chains, mobility needs and individuals. Many different connections are made: distribu- tion systems and energy storage batteries, smart lighting solutions and low-energy LEDs, electric mobility and fast charging services, tools for the smart management of ener- gy and equipment in houses, buildings and cities, software to control energy exchanges in distributed self-production systems (demand management & response).


88 Sustainability Report 2019 ly innovative solutions, thanks to recharging infrastruc- ture, new technologies and second life battery services; > Financial Services: to provide innovative solutions in the payments and financial services sector. Specifically in the context of its development strategy and the sup- ply of financial services, Enel X has completed the acqui- sition of a 55% stake in PayTipper, a payment services company with a widespread network of sales points that offers its customers financial services to facilitate people’s daily lives.
In addition to the five Global Product Lines there is also an. 
Innovation & Product Lab, which designs, develops and tests new products and services, also with the contribution of customers.
Below are some of the projects developed or being tested: > DER Aggregation, a pilot project aimed at aggregating. 
In order to supply the new solutions, Enel X is structured in five Global Product Lines: > e-City: for public and artistic lighting, energy efficiency, safety and optical fibre; > e-Home: for the development of smarter homes, capa- ble of reducing energy consumption and guaranteeing greater well-being, for renewable generation with inte- grated solutions that also include storage; > e-Industries: to offer an integrated and tailor-made ser- vice to customers, from strategic consultancy to energy monitoring systems and efficiency technologies, from distributed generation to the smart use of batteries, as well as microgrid solutions in isolation and connected to the network and the most advanced demand response systems; > e-Mobility: to promote electric mobility with increasing-
Enel X: a constantly evolving circularity laboratory. 
At a Glance. 
Enel X is a circularity accelerator within its ecosystem of suppliers, partners, installers and customers. The aim is to speed up circularity through the Circular Economy Boosting Program, which is not only applied to portfolio solutions, generating a verified score, but also provides for industrial and public administration customers to obtain an Energy Cir- cularity Report, which measures energy circularity and identifies a structured roadmap to increase it by implementing a series of innovative solutions.
More information about the process is available on the dedicated website at: https://www.enelx.com/it/en/circular-econ- omy.
The starting point for the Circular Economy Boosting Program is the Circular Economy Score, which allows the degree of circularity of the solutions in the portfolio to be measured. 51 solutions have already been evaluated in 4 countries relating to: public lighting in Italy, Spain, Chile and Colombia; public and private recharging, juice lamp, residential photo- voltaic, storage systems, residential boiler and solar thermal in Italy; residential air conditioning in Italy and Chile. Sample results are available at www.enelx.com and www.enelxstore.com.
In 20 cases, based on these assessments, specific “circular intelligence” activities were carried out (analysis of the market context, scouting of innovations and startups) in order to identify opportunities to enhance the circularity of the various solutions, effectively completing the Circular Economy Boosting Program.
Furthermore, in 2019, Enel X undertook to start various projects related to the circularity pillars, including: > “product as a service” - Second Life Platform as a Service: Enel X offers its customers in Italy innovative energy service solutions linked to the reuse of photovoltaic panels previously partially used in the Enel value chain; > “extension of useful life” - regeneration of juice pole replacement parts: working with its suppliers, Enel X has introduced recovery and regeneration processes for the functioning spare parts of juice poles, with the aim of reus- ing them for maintenance and repair both in Italy and Spain; similar processes will also be applied in Latin America.


89. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms. 
ESG backbones Our pillars residential photovoltaic systems, including small ones, equipped with storage, enabling them to provide net- work services and preparing them to make part of their capacity available, thus contributing to the security and flexibility of the electricity system; > Click Enel, platform for Colombian customers who do not have a credit card, allowing them to purchase online subscriptions with the fee added to their electricity bill; > EV Trip Planning and Anagog, two projects that im- prove the customer’s experience of electric mobility through travel planning that takes into account the vehi- cle’s charge status, driving and road conditions, offering increasingly personalised services aimed at reducing “range anxiety” and making everyone understand the advantages of electric mobility; > Juice Ability, which offers users with physical disabili- ties the opportunity to recharge their electric wheelchair through the Enel X charging infrastructure; > with the aim of enriching Enel X’s commercial offer with new digital products and services for public adminis- tration, there are projects such as City Analytics 2.0, which, by analysing Big Data applied to geo-localised data flows, allows the urban areas with the highest “hu- man presence” to be identified and displayed, clearly showing urban mobility and tourist flows; Urban Adver- tising, where digital screens and totems, integrated and combined with urban furniture, allow people to commu- nicate, inform and display advertisements; Smart Pole, a new public lamppost that also provides services such as video surveillance, wi-fi, defibrillator, SOS button and multifunction socket using the same infrastructure base.
Furthermore, circular guidelines have been established for maintenance services to spread circular economy practices among the network of Enel X installers and maintainers for the e-Home Business Line in Italy; some com- mercial agreements have been established (including Enel X solutions) for our tradesmen, as well as a specific Enel X programme to reward the “circular” services and circular choices of our customers.
Enel X Circular Economy Client Report. 
During 2019, the first seven Circular Economy Client Report were finalised.
For public administration, Enel X has developed a new assessment model aimed at assessing the level of energy circularity of municipalities on two levels: at city level and specific site level.
For cities, the assessment covers five areas: circular economy, energy, mobility, waste, emissions. Each of these areas is assessed on the basis of four dimensions: > governance & policy (existence of local targets and plans to promote the circular economy and related issues); > support tools (promotion of municipal initiatives and incentives aimed at promoting circularity towards citizens and the private sector); > digitalization (integration of digital tools to enable, promote or facilitate the adoption of circular behaviour by citizens and the private sector); > status quo (assessment of the current status and targets achieved on items related to the circular economy).
For the specific site, the assessment focuses on the energy aspects of the building under analysis. In particular, the as- sessment areas are: renewable energy, energy efficiency, energy management, circularity enablers (for example, network services, electric mobility solutions).
The first complete Circular Economy Report pilot dedicated to public administration was the one produced for the. 
Municipality of Serrenti (South Sardinia) and its school; a small Sardinian municipality that won the Cresco Award in 2018, as it is rated as one of the Italian municipalities that is investing most in the renewable energy and smart grids sector. In addition to the Report the municipality was also supplied with a citizens’ annex, a booklet containing a simple summary of the main findings of the Report.


90 Sustainability Report 2019. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2021 TARGETS 2019 RESULTS CATEGORIES. 
Digital skills - Promote training on digital skills among all our people 100% people involved 46% people involved People growth. 
Training. 
Technologies and digitalization. 
Climate survey 100% people1 involved 86% participants 100% people1 involved 86% participants. 
Listening and dialogue. 
Performance appraisal 100% people1 involved 99% appraised 100% people1 involved 99% appraised2 People growth. 
Gender - % of women in selection processes3 50% women 42% women Diversity and inclusion. 
People growth. 
Disability - Appointment of Focal Points In all Group Countries in which there is at least one Enel person with a disability 100% of countries Diversity and inclusion 2019 2021 Engaging people we work with Plan. 
People centricity - Our people and their value (1/2) 4
8 8
8 5
102-15


91. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Our people and their value. 
Our pillars ESG backbones 1 Eligible and reachable people having a permanent contract and working in the Group for at least 3 months during 2019. 2 Forecast data, since the closure of the assessment process has been postponed to May 2, 2020 due to the Covid-19 crisis. 3 Selection processes involving blue collar workers and the USA perimeter are not included as local legislation to protect anti-discrimination practices in the recruiting phase does not allow to monitor this data.
2020 2022 Engaging people we work with Plan. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2022 TARGETS CATEGORIES. 
Digital skills - Promote training on digital skills among all our people 100% people involved People growth. 
Training. 
Technologies and digitalization. 
Climate survey 100% people1 involved 87% participants Listening and dialogue. 
Performance appraisal 100% people1 involved 99% appraised People growth. 
Gender - % of women in selection processes3 50% women Diversity and inclusion. 
People growth. 
Diversity and inclusion. 
Gender - Increase the number of female managers and middle managers Diversity and inclusion. 
People growth. 
Disability - Appointment of Focal Points 100% of Group Countries in which there is at least one Enel person with a disability. 
Diversity and inclusion. 
Reskilling and upskilling - Promote and plan reskilling and upskilling programmes for Enel people in order to support the energy transition. 
People growth. 
Training. 
Technologies and digitalization 4
8 8
5 5
8 4
8


92 Sustainability Report 2019. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2021 TARGETS 2019 RESULTS CATEGORIES. 
Scholarships available for employees 390 scholarships 175 scholarships Training. 
Extension of the Travel Security model 100% of international and intercontinental travel in countries with the exclusive presence of Enel X and EGP in 2019. 
Integration of data of all countries1 in the integrated Travel Security system. 
Security. 
Physical protection of persons2 Launch of the new policy in all countries and definition of a global reporting solution > Global policy developed and already in force in all countries > “Basic dashboard solution” developed on the Global Security Dashboard portal. 
Security 2019 2021 Engaging people we work with Plan 4
17 3
8 3
8 102-15. 
People centricity - Our people and their value (2/2)


93. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Our people and their value. 
Our pillars ESG backbones 2020 2022 Engaging people we work with Plan. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2022 TARGETS CATEGORIES. 
Scholarships available for employees 390 scholarships Training. 
Extension of the Travel Security model Further extension of e-Travel portal’s functions (itinerary planning and authorisation process for all countries)
Security. 
Physical protection of people2 > Re-issue of tender for travel security and threat intelligence services > Evolution of the Global Security Dashboard portal (GSD) with new travel and local security indicators. 
Security 4
17 3
8 3
8 1 Costa Rica, Taiwan and Singapore and not included. 2 Services for mitigation of the risk of aggression and robbery for Enel people operating in countries with high crime rates.


94 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Thanks to the energy, know-how and common vision of Enel’s people, we are ca- pable of managing the constantly evolving complexities, while maintaining our commit- ments to the market. Progress springs from ideas and co-creation, and is nourished by values such as trust, responsibility, proactivity and innovation.
The main trends make it necessary to define a new world of work that responds more dynamically to the challenges of the future, making a different leadership model neces- sary. Technological advances offer ever greater choice and flexibility, both in the way in which tasks are carried out and in the organisation and management of people. The necessary skills change and upskilling and reskilling strategies assume ever greater im- portance to allow companies to develop talent and contribute to socially responsible approaches to accompany the transition without leaving anyone behind. On average, companies are populated by five different generations of people, and women constitute a professional potential that is yet to be appreciated.
In this context, Enel is working towards: > creating a new role of leader capable of managing the change presented by the external environment and simultaneously capable of guiding people to- wards the achievement of objectives, acting as a facilitator. Courage, curiosity, resilience, and enormous generosity are characteristics that identify the leader of the future that focuses on the potential of people in their entirety, in terms of both skills and aptitudes; > guaranteeing an open, dynamic working environment that promotes the entre- preneurial approach, the assumption of risks, innovation and management of dis- continuities, and that embeds diversity and inclusion; > promoting constant updating of skills, capabilities and experience. Training is ever more a partner of growth for all, stimulating individual initiative, self-learning and a pro-active aptitude, while also sharing a wealth of resources in terms of knowledge and passion. This makes it possible to remain abreast of the times and capture the weak signals of today that may well become the market trends tomorrow.
Agile, job change, mentoring, shadowing, coaching, failure culture and open feedback are all tools that make it possible to enable this new cultural ecosystem and thus to create value in the long term. In particular, the agile approach, launched in 2017, constitutes a different way of working, oriented towards improvement and continuous learning through sharing of responsibility towards a common goal. In 2019 approximately 500 initiatives were staged in 11 countries, with the involvement of al- most 3 thousand people, 44% of whom took part in specific training sessions on mind- set, the main agile frameworks and the associated profiles, necessary to promote and. 
Our people and their value 21% women in the workforce 3,726 new hires 38.8 average training hours per employee 83.7% ERR manager (Equal Remuneration Ratio) 102-7 103-2 103-3 404-1 405-1 405-2 401-1. 
Sustainability Report At a Glance Performance indicators. 
Annual Report


95. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Our people and their value. 
Our pillars ESG backbones accelerate agile transformation in Enel. In addition, onboarding initiatives have been carried out together with communication campaigns designed to disseminate the agile culture and to engage people. Job change has been promoted to allow peo- ple to open up to new possibilities and challenges, facilitating cross-fertilisation at all levels and diversification of competenc- es, and to bring aptitudes to bear in different contexts, creat- ing increasingly horizontal and complete professional profiles.
30,000 hours were dedicated to mentoring and shadowing activities in 2019, in order to exchange experiences, acquire different outlooks, expand competences, and strengthen the network of relationships, with more than 4 thousand individ- uals engaged in coaching activities since 2017. In the past year the shadowing project was further extended to involve #IOLAVORODACASA. 
Enel has taken action to deal with the emergency linked to the spread of Coronavirus (Covid-19), also to support the countries in which it works. Smart working was immediately implemented for around 50% of staff, protecting their health and guaranteeing business continuity, and a specific task force has been set up with the aim of monitoring the phenomena, defining suitable actions and sharing experience across the various countries.
A dedicated section has been created on the company intranet with useful information, advice and materials. Specif- ically, the new section contains recommendations for prevention and behaviours to adopt together with information concerning work in the field (preventive and protective measures, how to don disposable gloves, how to use face masks, and travel permit forms) and digital working, also with a focus on the prevention of cyber fraud.
Also, the eDucation global platform contains the following sections, which are updated on a daily basis with new learning contents: > “Lavorare insieme”, coaching pills, advice and suggestions to use IT tools and equipment to their best advantage; > “Informarsi”, support for smart working activities; > “Rigenerarsi”, tutorials on the subject of personal and family well-being.
In addition, Enel has asked its people for ideas on how the Company could contribute to facing and overcoming the emergency in Italy in the optimal manner. There is no restriction on the areas of application and type of resources to use, internal or external, although solutions must be practical, realistic and rapidly implementable.
Enel people in the world. 
As of December 31, 2019 the Enel Group employed 68,253 people (down by 1,019 with respect to the end of 2018).
The reduction in the Group workforce is the effect of the net balance between new recruits and terminations in the year (-1,094 people) and the change in scope (accounting overall for +75 people), including decommissioning of the Mercure plant, which is part of Enel Produzione in Italy, acquisition in. 
March of the Tradewind company in the US, sale of the Reft- inskaya GRES plant in Russia and acquisition of PayTipper. 
Network Srl, FlagPay Srl and PayTipper in Italy.
Since 2015, Enel has adopted a model of values and con- ducts, the “Open Power” model, which takes form in var- ious operational aspects, in order to increase the involve- ment and participation of the people working at Enel, and which serves as the point of reference for all people man- agement and development processes. Specifically, there are 4 values (responsibility, trust, innovation and proactivity) and 10 behaviours: all Group managers worldwide and thereafter white collar staff of the main metropolitan sites in a peer2peer experience to gain familiarity with new organisational contexts, experiment with new activities and extend their network. Also promoted was the voluntary participation “I-coach” initiative designed to disseminate the coaching and feedback culture that supports the Open Power transformation, stimulating the capacity of a personal vision, of coaching towards new objectives and chal- lenges, of improvement and self-development. The course is delivered by certified Enel coaches who share their skills, applying all their passion for serving others. Each course day consists of an alternation of practical and theoretical sessions.
Finally, in the 2018-2019 period around 545 thousand feedback messages were exchanged.


96 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania 0.8% 8.7% 14.8% 43.6% 29.7% 2.4%
Europe and Euro-Mediterranean Affairs. 
Iberia. 
Italy. 
Latin America. 
North America 1 Adopt and promote safe behaviours and take the initia- tive in order to improve conditions regarding health, safe- ty and well-being.
2 Take decisions in their daily activities and accept the re- sponsibility that goes with them.
3 Deliver results and aim for excellence.
4 Seek new solutions and do not give up when faced with obstacles or failures.
5 Change their priorities rapidly when required to do so by changes in the scenario.
6 Share relevant information and are cooperative, as well as willing to listen to other people’s opinions and ideas.
7 Acknowledge colleagues’ merit and provide feedback when asked or independently which improves their work.
8 Ensure customers’ and/or colleagues’ satisfaction by act- ing effectively and fast.
9 Strive to include everyone, acknowledge and enhance the value of individual differences (culture, gender, age, disability, personality, etc.).
10 Fulfill commitments and perform their work passionately and with determination.
The “People and Organization” Function defines organi- zational models in line with the Group’s strategy and the long-term plan for managing people that work in the Com- pany. The various people management, development and motivation processes are governed by specific policies and procedures at global and local level (for example, procedures to recruit, employ and manage people), and dedicated sec- tions are available on the company intranet (for example, on meritocracy). Enel’s organizational model has a matrix of. 
Business Lines/Countries and Regions, flanked by the Global. 
Service Functions and Holding Functions that provide sup- port for the business.
The main data and targets linked to the People and Organ- ization Function are submitted to the Control and Risks. 
Committee, to the Corporate Governance and Sustainability. 
Committee and to the Board of Directors, in the framework of meetings dedicated to the Sustainability Plan, to the Sus- tainability Report, and to the progress of Enel’s positioning in the main ESG ratings and sustainability indices.


97. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Our people and their value. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
Talent, development and management of people. 
In line with the current transformation scenario, which re- quires new skills and professional profiles, selection and recruiting, training and development processes play a key role in the Company. There were more than 3,700 new recruits in 2019, mainly in Italy and Latin America; relations with universities were consolidated by means of a series of ad hoc initiatives, and a new Recruiting Day pilot project was launched based on an aptitudinal model aimed at supporting the various recruiting requirements, creating a pipeline of young people. Testing was also carried out on new digital instruments that will support the selection pro- cess in 2020: a video interview based on IA and a gamifica- tion experience.
In a transformation scenario characterised by a high level of automation, ever more advanced technological evolution and new technical and professional profiles, Enel has devel- oped upskilling and reskilling programmes that promote the evolution of talents and skills. In particular, the upskill- ing programmes focus on the development of existing pro- fessional competences, adding new skills according to the needs dictated by innovative technology and processes.
Conversely, reskilling is aimed at creating new professional profiles, replacing skills that have become obsolete or are no longer required, and allowing people to work on new activities.
Continuous learning plays a core role for Enel. A total of 2,600,000 training hours (38.8 average hours pro capite) were delivered in 2019, with the involvement of 62,482 people, equal to 91.5% of the entire workforce. Training activities concern all aspects and targets: technical, be- havioural, managerial, agile linguistic, onboarding expe- rience for new recruits, training in health and safety, and in digital skills and culture. This is an authentic lab aimed at increasing the occupational and personal competitive- ness of all people, providing them with tools and methods to allow them to adopt an aware stance when facing the radical processes of change that impact working methods from a cultural and organisational perspective. In addition, the Company’s commitment continues to support not only the dissemination of digital competences and learning, but a digital culture above all. At 2019 Enel had engaged 46% of people in training activities on digital skills, in line with the goal of achieving 100% of its people within 2022. In continuity with the evolutionary path of leadership started in 2017 (from leader to coach), Enel has designed a cultural transformation journey called “Leadership in Digital and. 
Data-Driven Transformation” addressed to management.
During these meetings, dialogue was promoted between the best Italian and international companies, innovators in transformation of the business model and in digital culture development. In 2019, between April and December 19 training sessions were launched in Italy with the partici- pation of more than 500 managers, and 12 sessions in the rest of the world, with around 300 managers taking part.
This initiative is accompanied by experiential training activi- ties such as mentoring, coaching and job shadowing.
In April 2019, global adoption was completed of the eDu- cation learning platform, thanks to which management and monitoring of all training initiatives is guaranteed by means of a common service model in all Group countries. eDuca- tion also is the interface providing access to residential and online courses for all Enel people: to date nearly 90% of the. 
Enel population has completed at least one course on the platform. The eDucation platform allows Enel people to ac- cess around 200 multiple online contents in several lan- guages selected from the best providers on the market and constantly updated and expanded, in addition to the cours- es produced by Enel. Apart from freely making use of the courses, participants can become content promoters, sug- gesting books, courses, articles, videos, links, documents and reports, also from external sources, by means of the “learning playlists”, exchanging comments and attracting followers, in an expression of the principles of networking and knowledge sharing. In 2019, the main online courses of global interest released concerned language skills for Ital- ian, English and Spanish, which attracted more than 15,000 self-training participants worldwide; digital training on the. 
Office suite; knowledge of the e-commerce sector; training. 
DMA EU (former EU14) 103-2 103-3 404-3 404-1


98 Sustainability Report 2019 the future. The assessment methodology is designed to analyse competences, aptitudes, motivation and potential of future managers and to assess their ability to interpret. 
Enel’s cultural identity in their daily actions, in a horizontal manner with respect to the Group’s professional families.
The assessment is designed to identify people capable of implementing Open Power values and behaviours, to meet the challenges that Enel intends to overcome. Specific guidelines have been defined for management and identifi- cation of future candidates in all the Group’s countries.
on the anti-corruption topics related to the ISO 37001 cer- tification for all the Group’s Italian companies and for Enel. 
Green Power’s Italian and foreign companies; training on. 
Management Systems, on methods for the safe execution of work-related travel and on safety on the roads.
The Enel training model is open to the outside, through the. 
Schools and Academies, which were reinforced in 2019.
The purpose of the programmes is to respond to the spe- cific technical and specialised training needs of the various business areas and to contribute to the development and upskilling of technical and managerial competences they contain, performed in collaboration with strategic academic partners and with the support of Fondazione Enel. In par- ticular, nine Schools were set up between 2016 and 2019, engaging partners in the form of universities and renowned research institutes, and five Academies were opened.
In 2019, the process of qualitative and quantitative perfor- mance appraisal saw the engagement of Group people at various levels in a fluid process of exchange and across the board feedback (360°feedback), shifting the focus towards the organisational network rather than pursuing an hierarchi- cal model. In particular, 100% of eligible and reachable peo- ple were engaged in 20191, of whom 99%2 were assessed.
In contrast, the quantitative assessment was performed for the population with variable remuneration, providing for the allocation of objectives and their subsequent apprais- al. Finally, the new campaign was launched for definition of Succession Planning, the process whereby all Group managers are required to identify the best talents available to fill managerial roles in the short term (Ready) and in the medium term (Pipeline). To complement the development of successors, the manager and the People and Organiza- tion Function identify personal growth projects based on their individual and professional profile, in relation to the positions for which they have been identified. Successor identification is performed in accordance with the follow- ing reference criteria: celebration of meritocracy, diversity and functional osmosis. The appointment of new manag- ers then occurs following an aptitude assessment, which serves to check alignment between the level of responsibil- ity to assign to the person in question and the management model that the Company deems necessary for today and 1 Eligible and reachable: those who have an open-term contract and who were in the workforce and active for at least three months in 2019.
2 Forecast data, since the closure of the assessment process has been postponed to May 2, 2020 due to the Covid-19 crisis.


99. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Our people and their value. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
One important listening tool in the Company is the climate survey, which makes it possible to identify areas of improve- ment in relation to three key topics – well-being, engage- ment, and safety – and suggestions on topics and aspects of working life. Following the 2018 survey the identified action plans are currently under development. To answer the is- sues that emerged from the climate survey concerning work- life balance and well-being, a process of in-depth analysis of the digital detox topic was launched in 2019. Further to anal- ysis of studies and research into the impacts of hyperconnec- tivity, a set of actions was defined, also with the participation of Enel people in dedicated focus groups, in order to facilitate the transition from a hyperconnectivity culture to a culture of responsible use of electronic devices.
Another key tool for feedback and proximity to people con- sists of interviews with People Business Partners, corpo- rate figures dedicated to listening and identifying the needs of people in order to integrate them with the needs of the organisation. These figures are assisted by People Support. 
Points, i.e. physical meeting points to which people can refer to resolve administrative and operative topics associated with their employment relationship. Planning is also proceeding for the People & Business Partner network and support services to facilitate the management of the personal and professional daily life of employees suffering from chronic illnesses. The initiative constitutes an important phase of attention to an ex- tremely delicate topic and is aimed at promoting the profes- sional and social inclusion of all people.
Internal communication. 
Enel considers internal communications to be an impor- tant support in creating the corporate culture and in both organisational and people growth, soliciting and promoting the exchange of information, know-how and experience.
Several global campaigns were promoted in 2019, including the launch of Enel People, a new section of the website www.enel.com dedicated to employer branding and talent acquisition. The existing platform has been completely rein- vented and an interactive journey has been recreated, mak- ing it possible to explore life in the organisation and get an idea of the environment in which Enel people work all over the world, listening directly to their opinions in relation to innovation, sustainability and technology, and also in relation to their personal experience in the Company. In addition to collecting all open positions in the various Group countries, the section provides a storytelling function relating the enor- mous diversity and wealth of experience of Enel people.
Internal communication is also the main vector to dissem- inate Enel’s strategy and the objectives identified for the near future. In 2019, Enel’s internal media were further de- veloped in order to guarantee that the contents reach the entire population of the Company in all its Countries and Re- gions, and that they are accessible also from mobile termi- nals and outside the company network.
Diversity and inclusion. 
Enel’s commitment to diversity and inclusion is a process that began in 2013 with the adoption of the Policy on Human. 
Rights, followed in 2015 by the “Diversity and inclusion”
Policy, in parallel with adoption of the seven “Women’s Em- powerment Principles” (WEP) promoted by the UN Glob- al Compact and UN Women and in compliance with the UN. 
Sustainable Development Goals.
Moreover, the Global People Care and Diversity Manage- ment unit was set up in 2016 within the People and Organ- ization Function, where it performs the role of guiding and supervising adoption of the policy, also by monitoring a de- tailed set of internal indicators linked to the various actions and areas of application.
2019 saw the publication of the workplace harassment pol- icy, the aim of which is to disseminate a culture of opposi- tion to all forms of harassment in the workplace and offer 102-43 Listening and dialogue 103-2 103-3 405-1


100 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Enel has confirmed its commitment in relation to the topic of diversity and inclusion, also through the definition of specif- ic public targets that form part of the Sustainability Plan and the progress of which is reported in the Sustainability Report.
These documents are analysed by the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee and the Control and Risks Com- mittee, and subsequently approved by the Board of Directors.
In 2019, the Board of Directors was given a specific training session on the subject of disabilities at the time of Enel’s par- ticipation in “Valuable 500”, the global initiative addressed to 500 private sector companies with the aim of providing an outlet to express the potential of disabled personnel in the corporate, social and economic spheres.
Gender diversity. 
At December 2019, women accounted for 21% of the en- tire Group population and their presence in the initial stages of selection processes was recorded at 42%3 (39% in 2018), in line with the goal of reaching 50% by 2022 in order to guar- antee equal representation. Women managers have followed an upward trend in recent years (2014: 14% vs 2019: 21%), while women in executive roles currently total 11.1% (2 out of 18). The 2019 equal remuneration rating - ERR manager4 concerning the managerial population is 83.7%. In general, the trend of global equal remuneration ratings is influenced by the different average salaries in the countries in which the. 
Group operates and by the incidence of newly acquired com- panies or divested companies.
Enel carries out periodic monitoring of the presence of wom- en in managerial positions and on salary equity, and the 2020-2022 Sustainability Plan provides for an increase in the number of women in management and middle management positions. In this context, Enel is committed to the develop- ment of women for senior positions, implementing specific management actions whose results however can only be fully appreciated in the medium/long term, considering the effects of the generational dynamic. In the short term, salary equity is anyway guaranteed de facto for new appointments to man- agerial positions, and a dedicated budget has been created to guarantee equal pay for equal roles. Moreover, the salary 3 Blue collar workers and the US scope were excluded from the selection pool because local regulations protecting anti-discriminatory practices during recruiting operations prevent monitoring of this parameter.
4 ERR manager (Equal Remuneration Ratio) = fixed + variable female managers / fixed + variable male managers.
adequate tools to deal with situations of this type. The policy provides definitions and indications on the whistle-blowing and investigation process and on the related disciplinary and preventive measures and is applicable to employees and third parties working with Enel people in all contexts in which the. 
Company conducts its operations. Publication of the global policy was followed by publication of various local policies which, in certain cases, adapted the global policy to match the regulatory framework in individual countries. The policy concerns both moral and sexual harassment, referred to any undesirable behaviour or conduct such that results in the cre- ation of work conditions that are degrading, hostile, humili- ating, intimidating, offensive or unsafe. In this context, har- assment means physical, verbal or visual acts or behaviours.
The policy regulates harassment events that take place in the workplace and also those that occur outside, such as during work travel, luncheons, dinners, external visits and social events linked to the Company’s business. The policy provides a whistle-blowing mechanism using the Enel Code of Eth- ics channel, and adequate disciplinary actions and penalties (commensurate with the seriousness and frequency of the conduct), which can result in termination of employment in the most serious cases. Also internal training and awareness activities are planned on the subject of ethics in the work- place, behaviours to adopt, and respect for diversity.
Enel’s approach to diversity and inclusion is based on core principles of non-discrimination, equal opportunities and equal dignity for all forms of diversity, inclusion, and work-life bal- ance set down in the related policy of 2015. Application of the policy in recent years has made it possible to develop global and local projects celebrating diversity of gender, age, nation- ality, and abilities, and disseminating a culture of inclusion, with awareness and communication initiatives that involved all organisational contexts, thanks also to the commitment of company management and of all people who, in line with the requirements of Open Power behaviours, recognise the value of each person regardless of individual differences.
2019 saw the production of “Inclusion Ongoing” – the edi- tion of the D&I Days organised since 2017 – with the aim of focusing on the concept of inclusion = value and the path leading from the culture of inclusion to inclusive behaviours, with the active engagement and empowerment of all. At the same time, an awareness campaign was launched called “In- clusi-ON”: the name of the initiative is designed to commu- nicate the idea that inclusion is an attitude that must be acti- vated – switched ON – and that each individual is responsible for assuming.


101. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Our people and their value. 
Our pillars ESG backbones review policy contains specific guidelines to take account of diversity issues, which are also among the criteria employed to identify talent to insert in succession plans (refer to the “Talent, development and management of people” para- graph in this chapter).
A large number of activities were carried out dedicated to em- powerment and the development of female leadership in the countries in which the Group operates, and the path aimed at facilitating access by female students to technical faculties (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics - STEM) continued to be pursued by means of awareness initiatives, carried out in schools, in universities, and in company sites.
In relation to parenthood, there are specific paternity and ma- ternity programmes in place. Many countries are implement- ing improvement measures with respect to local legislation in relation to maternity, paternity and parental leave. With respect to legal requirements, extra days of maternity leave are granted, together with supplementary remuneration, in. 
Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Peru, Guatemala, Italy, Mexico,
United States, and Spain. For example, in Italy Enel pays 100% of the normal salary in the first 5 months, compared to the legal requirement of 80%. Also, Colombia offers the opportunity of smart working in the last month of pregnancy, while in Argentina smart working is possible for two days per week in the first six months after returning from maternity leave and, in India, to support critical situations during preg- nancy. Paternity leave is guaranteed by law in many countries, and in the majority of them Enel provides additional days of paid leave. For example, in Italy, five further days of paid leave are provided in addition to the five days required by law for 2019. Conversely, in relation to paternity leave, Enel’s collec- tive bargaining agreement in Italy provides for remuneration equivalent to 45% for the first month and 40% for the second and third months, while the legal requirement is 30% for the first six months. On the other hand, Russia, Romania, Greece and Panama recognise a monetary contribution on the birth of a child, while in South Africa the full salary is paid during the period of leave that is not remunerated under local legislation.
Active on the global level, the Parental Program project is aimed at promoting organisational and personal awareness of the value of parenthood in order to assure optimal recon- ciliation of personal and professional needs concerning this


102 Sustainability Report 2019 professional development, to help them get to know the or- ganisation and the value system.
The tutorship is currently part of the onboarding process, which also envisages a global training project dedicated to graduates between 22 and 28 years of age from all over the world. The project promotes the Open Power culture and makes participants Open Power ambassadors in their coun- tries of origin. In this context, the promotion and development of new skills has been assured by setting up “Click Labora- tories”, innovation centres addressed to young new recruits with the aim of developing cross-sector and knowledge inte- grated with digital competences and soft skills.
Disabilities. 
There are 2,254 people with disabilities in Enel, of whom around 1,700 in Italy. Specific statutory legislation in many of. 
Enel’s countries calls for minimum numbers of disabled staff in the workforce, and all countries in the Group were found to be in line with the related provisions. In each of the rele- vant countries5 there is a reference focal point dedicated to identifying needs and promoting initiatives aimed at assuring the inclusion of people with disabilities. In consideration of the large number of disabled staff in Italy, 2 focal points were created. Including diversities also means providing people with tools, services and working methods to allow them to perform their duties in a fully independent manner. In Italy, several initiatives within the “Avanti tutti” project have been adopted, aimed at delivering tools to make processes and en- vironments inclusive and to promote autonomy, making life in the organisational context more simple and productive. Exam- ples include Pedius for safety, the app that allows the hearing impaired to receive and make telephone calls thanks to a voice synthesis system integrated with safety functions, company guidelines for accessibility to web contents and a large range of specific training initiatives. In Spain, a personalised coun- selling and Plan Familia service is active for Enel people with disabled family members, in addition to the Company’s volun- tary activities aimed at the employability of disabled persons at risk of social exclusion. In addition, various communication campaigns have been launched to promote awareness on the importance of the inclusion of people with disabilities through the use of virtual reality tools, workshops and interviews.
5 Relevant countries are those in which there is at least one disabled member of staff.
critical stage of life. In this context, New Parents New En- ergy is a training programme operating in Italy, designed to elevate the value of parenting skills in the work context and to support new parents in reconciling roles and managing their daily lives. Also active is the MAAM-CHILD digital platform, which stimulates active reflection on individual experience in order to bring it to the table in a work-related setting and that uses life and caring experiences as an opportunity for devel- oping essential soft skills for effective work activities, namely organisational, innovative and relational capabilities. Finally, various awareness initiatives were carried out on the subject of violence against women.
As a testament to the commitment concerning the topic of gender equality, for the first time this year Enel was included in the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index (GEI). The Group is in fact one of the 325 companies of the approximately 6 thou- sand businesses listed on the stock exchange in 84 countries assessed based on the degree of dissemination and success of their inclusion initiatives. Also Enel’s Spanish subsidiary. 
Endesa was included in the index for the first time. The recog- nition is due to the practices aimed at promoting the presence of women on the Board of Directors, in managerial positions and among new recruits, helping to guarantee equal remu- neration and social benefits and work-life balance solutions for all employees.
Age diversity. 
The tutorship programmes proceeded in 2019 for new junior recruits, in order to support their induction into Enel. There are also knowledge transfer programmes in place where each Country and Business Line identifies the most suitable methods to facilitate intergenerational exchanges, involving both senior (mainly on technical topics) and junior (mainly on digital skills) Enel people as internal coaches or experts. In 2019, around 1,100 seniors shared their know-how with more than 12 thousand co-workers, and around 300 juniors did the same with more than 7 thousand co-workers. Furthermore, on the global level, a programme of manager to manager and manager to upcoming juniors “Job Shadowing” was launched, aimed at facilitating the exchange of Open Power competences, managerial styles, values and approaches, in order to promote mobility and dissemination of knowledge and to consolidate the professional network. New recruits are also assigned a tutor as an informal point of reference for


103. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Our people and their value. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
Work-life balance, people care and corporate welfare. 
Enel is attentive to organisational and personal well-being, and has pursued an undertaking for several years to promote solu- tions to improve work-life balance and to support the tangible and daily needs of individuals in order to respect all the situ- ations, also of a contingent nature, that an individual may be required to deal with during his or her working life. The caring activities, which involve all Enel people, concern the spheres of personal and family life, psychological-physical well-being, organisational matters, and work-life balance.
In particular, Enel promotes: > organisational caring: various forms of flexibility, including smart working, which was launched in Italy in 2016 and then extended to the Group’s other countries, and which leverages individual responsibility and the relationship of trust between the individual and the Company and that also supports a contribution to reducing environmental im- pact. At the end of 2019 more than 10 thousand people in. 
Italy and 17 thousand in the entire Group were involved in smart working initiatives; > personal caring: mindfulness courses, workshops on nu- tritional and relational well-being, programmes to promote physical exercise, courses in yoga, pilates and postural gymnastics, and life saving actions for proactive manage- ment of psychological-physical well-being, both at work and in personal life. Cultural meetings were also staged to promote discussions concerning relevant topics in the company and personal sphere; > family caring: specific projects such as “Together Digital. 
Day”, a cyber security and coding laboratory for employees and their children from 8 to 16 years of age, and “Millen- nials Enel Day”, a workshop with the purpose of orienting employees’ children aged from 18 to 27 in their choice of educational and professional paths in an increasingly com- plex job market. In 2019 these initiatives involved around 100 young people.
Staff in Italy can also transfer holidays and time-off for solidari- ty motives among co-workers of the same company to assist young children or adolescents, parents, spouses, members of a civil union or unmarried couples who require constant treat- ment or in the case of very serious personal or family situa- tions. In addition to holidays donated by co-workers, Enel offers an equal amount of paid leave.
1 Argentina (smart working), Brazil (smart working, time bank, flexi-time), Chile (smart working, flexi-time), Colombia (smart working, time bank, flexi-time), Peru (teleworking, flexi-time, seasonal work hours). 2 Teleworking in Italy involves work services to be carried out mainly from home, with one or two days on site per week. Teleworking in Latin America is carried out with just one or two days per week working from home.
Italy Spain Romania Russia North America. 
Latin America (1)
Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Europe and Euro-Mediterranean. 
Flexi-time. 
Seasonal work hours. 
Part time. 
Teleworking (2)
Smart working. 
Time bank. 
Affairs 103-2 103-3


104 Sustainability Report 2019. 
The majority of countries in which the Group operates offer supplementary health insurance policies at advantageous con- ditions with respect to the alternatives available on the mar- ket. In many cases it is the Company that provides benefits related to prevention and periodic check-ups (refer also to the chapter on “Occupational health and safety”). For all Italian em- ployees and their dependent family members, in agreement with trade unions Enel set up the Supplementary Healthcare. 
Provision for Enel Group Employees (FISDE) in 1997. The Pro- vision disburses repayments and redemptions for healthcare expenses, promotes initiatives for the disabled and individuals subject to socially challenging situations (drug addiction, alco- holism, learning difficulties, psychological-social disorders) and sets up preventive medicine programmes. Also in 2019, mem- bers were able to take advantage of symposia with the Italian. 
National Council of Psychologists (CNOP) and Psychoanalytic. 
Society (SPI) for psychological support services. In line with the. 
FISDE solidarity principle, also ex Enel employees can continue to benefit from the services offered by the Provision by contin-
Supplementary healthcare assistance and complementary pensions uing to pay the membership fees.
Supplementary assistance programmes for employees, their family members and communities are also supplied thanks to the protocol of social action attached to the col- lective bargaining agreement. The measures to support personnel includes the facility to access additional pension funds and the award of various types of individual benefits in services associated with employee severance indemnity. At. 
December 31, 2019, employees covered by the Enel Group pension plan totalled 70% of the population. Pension funds exist mainly in Italy (Fopen and Fondenel), Spain, and Brazil.
Enel has drawn up an insurance policy to cover the Group’s over 68,000 employees worldwide in the event of hospitali- zation with the Covid-19 virus. The insurance tool, which was specifically designed for the needs of the Enel Group, repre- sents the first ever of its kind in the world aimed at guarantee- ing support at global level for the ongoing pandemic and will guarantee additional benefits on top of all other insurance pol- icies and forms of health care already used within the Group.
Management of travel-related risks. 
As from 2016, Enel people travelling to destinations considered at risk are provided with specific information detailing the healthcare situation and safety conditions of the countries in question. In particular, by means of the company travel reservations system, the Security Travel Guide and Health Guide are sent out before departure, with any necessary updates integrated during the trip. In relation to specific risks associated with the destination, whenever necessary. 
Enel prepares suitable protective measures (expert guides, bodyguards, etc.). To coordinate the entire process, a 24/7 supervisory function supports personnel during travel, monitors the relevant news reports and coordinates responses in the presence of situations of objective danger or emergency. The model is active in all Group countries, guaranteeing 100% coverage of international and intercontinental travel with the integrated Travel Security system.
Industrial relations. 
Enel complies with labour law in the various countries and the conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) concerning workers’ rights (freedom of association and collective bargaining, consultation, right to strike, etc.), systematically promoting discussion between social partners and seeking an adequate level of agreement and sharing of corporate strategies by employees. In 2019, the percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements was 91.2%, in line with the figure for 2018 (91.5%).
Industrial relations activities on the Group level continue to 103-2 103-3 402-1 103-2 103-3


105. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Our people and their value. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
COUNTRY MINIMUM PERIOD LEGAL PROVISIONS/COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS. 
Italy 25 days Legal provisions. 
Spain and Portugal 30 days Guarantee Framework Agreement of Endesa SA and subsidiaries in Spain (September 12, 2007)
Russia 60 days Legal provisions. 
Romania Obligation to inform and consult worker representatives on business developments and to inform them periodically about the Company’s economic situation. For group layoffs, at least 30 days’ notice for the trade union organizations and 20 days’ notice for workers. The maximum period for the group layoff procedure is 90 days. 
Legal provisions Collective agreement. 
Argentina Obligation to periodically update worker representatives; traditionally the notice period for changes in working hours, employee roles or place of work is 48 hours, although there is no specific regulation -
Brazil Obligation to issue a “timely” notice -
Colombia Neither the law nor collective bargaining provide for a minimum notice period in the event of organizational changes -
Peru Neither the law nor collective bargaining provide for a minimum notice period in the event of organizational changes -
Chile Neither the law nor collective bargaining provide for a minimum notice period in the event of organizational changes - be conducted in accordance with the model set down in the. 
Enel Global Framework Agreement (GFA) signed in Rome in 2013 with the Italian federations and the global federations. 
IndustriALL and Public Services International. The agreement is founded on the principles of human rights, labour rights and of the best and most advanced transnational industrial relation systems of the reference multinational groups and in- stitutions on the international level, including the ILO. These principles include the principle on remuneration, whereby the minimum compensation of the Group’s employees cannot be lower than the level established by the collective bargaining contacts and legislative and regulatory treatments in force in the various countries, in line with the matters set down in the. 
ILO conventions. Enel guarantees that the equal pay principle is respected in all countries in which it is present and it is committed to guarantee a living wage to all its employees.
In the framework of this agreement, Enel recognises the right of its employees to set up or participate in trade union as- sociations in order to protect their interests. It also awards them the right to be represented, in the various generation units, by trade union organisations and other forms of rep- resentation elected in compliance with the legislation and practices in force in the countries concerned. Enel recognises the value of collective bargaining as a tool to determine the contractual conditions of its employees and to regulate rela- tions between company management and trade union asso- ciations. Enel complies with the principle of independence of unions and does not interfere in any way with the organisation of representation, allowing access of its employees’ repre- sentatives to the workplaces in order to communicate with their members, in compliance with the law and the industrial relations systems in force in each country. Enel supplies ad- equate information to its employees and to the trade union organisations that represent them, in order to facilitate col- lective bargaining. The GFA agreement was also recognised and acclaimed as a best practice among European and non-
EU multinationals. Enel provides its people with a full range of information concerning collective labour agreements and trade union agreements, in accordance with the provisions of statutory legislation and by means of the company intranet.
In the case of organisational changes, Enel provides prompt information as indicated in the table shown hereunder.


106 Sustainability Report 2019. 
SDG ACTIVITIES TARGETS 2019 RESULTS CATEGORIES. 
Inclusive and equitable quality education 2.5 mil beneficiaries in 20301 1.3 mil beneficiaries (2015-2019) Education. 
Community relations. 
Partnerships. 
Economic, reliable, sustainable and modern energy 10.0 mil beneficiaries in 20301 7.9 mil beneficiaries (2015-2019) Access to energy. 
Community relations. 
Partnerships. 
Durable, inclusive and sustainable economic growth 8.0 mil beneficiaries in 20301 2.1 mil beneficiaries (2015-2019) Social development. 
Community relations. 
Partnerships. 
Dissemination of strategic partnerships and promotion of operative partnerships ~800 partnerships set up Partnerships. 
Implementation of new projects in support of the communities in which Enel operates in order to create shared value (CSV) and to foster the energy culture ~1,800 projects Community relations. 
Partnerships. 
Diffusion of the Creating Shared Value (CSV) model in the operational units (Business Development, Engineering & Construction, Operation & Maintenance) 1,375 total CSV applications Industrial growth. 
Community relations 2019 2021 Engaging local communities Plan. 
People centricity - Communities and value sharing 4
17 7
17 8
17 17 1
2 3
5 10 17 9
102-15


107 Community and shared value. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix ESG backbones Our pillars 1 Cumulative targets since 2015 2020 2022 Engaging local communities Plan. 
SDG ACTIVITIES TARGETS CATEGORIES. 
Inclusive and equitable quality education 2.5 mil beneficiaries in 20301 Education. 
Community relations. 
Partnerships. 
Affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy 10.0 mil beneficiaries in 20301 Access to energy. 
Community relations. 
Partnerships. 
Sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth 8.0 mil beneficiaries in 20301 Social development. 
Community relations. 
Partnerships. 
Strengthening of strategic partnerships and promotion of operational partnerships. 
Partnership. 
Implementation of new projects in support of the communities in which Enel operates in order to create shared value (CSV)
Community relations. 
Partnerships. 
Dissemination of the CSV model in operating assets Industrial growth. 
Community relations 4
17 7
17 8
17 17 1
2 3
5 10 17 9


108 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Listening to stakeholders, knowing the territory and measuring created value. 
The energy industry is going through profound change. Focusing on social and envi- ronmental factors, plus an inclusive approach, enables us to create long-term value for the Company and the communities in which it operates. A model expressed along the entire value chain: analysing the needs of the communities starting from the phases of developing new businesses; taking into account social and environ- mental factors while setting up sustainable construction sites; managing assets and plants to make them sustainable development platforms in the areas where they are located. Further development is seen by the extension of this approach also in the design, development and supply of energy services and products, con- tributing towards creating cities that are increasingly sustainable by leveraging ac- cess to new technologies and circular-economy approaches.
Enel is committed to respecting the right of communities and contributing towards their economic and social progress by interfacing with a multitude of stakeholders on a daily basis. Having knowledge of the specific local situations and listening to the needs of the stakeholders become essential elements for identifying targeted solu- tions, considering the multiplicity of economic, social and cultural situations in which. 
Enel operates and of which it is an integral part with the management of its assets.
In 2019, with approximately 1,800 projects and more than 4 million beneficiar- ies1 in the countries in which it is present, Enel made a tangible contribution to the development and social and economic growth of local areas: from the expansion of infrastructures to education and training programmes, from initiatives aimed at social inclusion to projects designed to support cultural and economic activities, in line with the sustainable development goals (SDG).
1 Beneficiaries are the people in whose favour the project was carried out. Enel considers only the direct beneficiaries for the current year. The number of beneficiaries considers the activities and projects carried out in all the areas in which the Group operates (including companies consolidated with the equity method, the foundations and non-profit organisations of the Group, and the companies for which the BSO - Build, Sell and Operate mechanism was applied).
Communities and value sharing 1,800 sustainability projects 4 million beneficiaries 1,375 applications of the CSV model (Creating Shared Value) 800 partnerships 102-42 102-43 102-44 103-2. 
Sustainability Report At a Glance Performance indicators. 
Annual Report 103-3 411-1 413-1


109 Community and shared value. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix ESG backbones Our pillars. 
The essential lever to carry out these projects is the recourse to around 800 partnerships with organisations, companies, and institutions operating at the local and international level that promote development of the territory through tailored interventions.
The sustainability of the strategy is also confirmed by the progress made in terms of the Group’s contribution to the achievement of the SDGs. During 2015-2019, the Group ob- tained the following results2: 2 Only for the scope of the Consolidated Non-Financial Statement pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 254/16 (excluding companies consolidated using the equity method, foundations and non-profit organisations of the Group, and the companies for which the BSO - Build, Sell and Operate mechanism was applied) the number of beneficiaries for 2019 equals approximately 3.7 million, in relation to 1,653 projects (in 2018 there were approximately 6 million beneficiaries in relation to 1,400 projects).
> SDG 4 – projects supported to guarantee inclusive and equitable quality education, which involved 1.3 million beneficiaries (1.0 million during 2015-2018); > SDG 7 – progress made in offering access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for 7.9 million beneficiaries (6.3 million during 2015-2018); > SDG 8 – promoted sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth with projects that concerned 2.1 mil- lion beneficiaries (1.8 million during 2015-2018).
Creating shared value model. 
Application of the CSV model in the Group. 
Identification of key factors relating to the social, economic and environmental aspects of the communities. 
Definition of an action plan for the creation of shared value (CSV) in line with the priority issues which emerged and with impact analyses. 
Monitoring of the process, measurement of the impacts and reporting of the key indicators. 
Mapping and weighting of the main stakeholders and recording their needs. 
Implementation of actions defined in the CSV Plan, if necessary with the collaboration of strategic partners. 
Identification of priority issues for stakeholders and for the Company, identification of potential risks/opportunities 
an al ys is. 
Co nt ex t. 
A na ly si s
of t
he ri sk s/ op po rt un iti es of s
ta ke ho ld er s. 
Id en ti fic at io n
a n
d re p
or ti n
g ev al ua ti ng. 
M on it or in g,
D efi n
it io n
of t
h e. 
C
S. 
V
Pl an. 
Ex ec ut io n
of t
h e. 
C
S. 
V
Pl an


110 Sustainability Report 2019. 
At the Enel Group, the path for applying a new communi- ty relations model started in 2015 with the adoption of a. 
Creating Shared Value (CSV) model that integrates social-en- vironmental factors into business processes and along the entire value chain. The dissemination of this method re- quired a consolidation path within the Company on a cultural and operative level. In 2016, Policy no. 211 “CSV Process definition and management” was published. It defines how sustainability must permeate company processes across the board, making it a shared responsibility. This policy was supplemented by issuing an operating instruction (no. 1768 “Project Portfolio Management System”), which represents the approach along Enel’s entire value chain in terms of pro- ject identification and characterisation as well as its mapping on the dedicated digitalized platform (Project Portfolio Man- agement System); management of the quality assurance process; calculation of beneficiaries; evaluation of project impact. The CSV model applies to the entire value chain with particular reference to business development, engineering, construction and procurement operations as well as asset management and maintenance. The model has six phases, as specified in the figure on the previous page.
An inclusive approach towards stakeholders also includes circular economy solutions. The infrastructures of plants being decommissioned can be reconverted to serve other purposes for promoting the territory by involving the various stakeholders. Another example is the “sustainable” man- agement of the construction sites in order to minimise their impacts (thanks, for example, to the installation of photo- voltaic solar panels to satisfy a part of the energy demand, the adoption of water saving measures, including installing water tanks and rainwater collection systems and the use of electric vehicles for transporting workers from the city to the construction site and for their movements within the construction site) and promote the development of this ap- proach by involving local workers.
The definition and dissemination of the guidelines on the use of CSV applications, the preparation and assessment of the sustainability projects, the management of the projects on a Group level and the dissemination of the best practices in the countries in which the company operates are guaran- teed by the Holding’s Innovability (Innovation and Sustaina- bility) organisational structure and by the relative sustaina- bility structures in the various countries of operation. During 2019, the Sustainability Functions were established also on a Business Line level, which testifies to the process of inte- grating sustainability at all the subsidiaries. Each country and each Business Line adapts the procedures for the global pol- icy and the procedures for application of the CSV model on a local level, based on the specific aspects of business and the context. In 2019, there were 1,375 applications of the. 
CSV model3 across the various phases of the value chain.
3 An application is interpreted as the use of at least one CSV tool in relation to an asset, in any phase of the value chain and in any Business Line. The CSV applications in the BD phase include applications regarding BD opportunities (also at the beginning phases) and business projects output leaving the pipeline. They can also relate to assets in O&M in the case of modernising projects or decommissioning activities. The CSV applications in the E&C phase can refer to assets passed to the O&M phase at the end of the year. The number of CSV applications in Infrastructure & Networks (I&N) may refer to the concession area, but also areas identified by municipalities and substations. As regards the NFS perimeter (excluding companies consolidated using the equity method, foundations and non-profit organisations of the Group, and the companies for which the BSO - Build, Sell and Operate mechanism was applied) the number of applications for 2019 equals 1,318 (in relation to 699 in 2018).


111 Community and shared value. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix ESG backbones Our pillars. 
Access to energy. 
DMA EU (former EU23)
The International Energy Agency (IEA) with its report on the state of health of energy resources worldwide shows how the number of people without access to electricity is decreasing gradually, bringing the number below one billion, even if there will still be 620 million people without electric- ity in 2030. This is a challenge and a primary and fundamen- tal need as reaffirmed also in SDG 7 of the United Nations, which aims to ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustain- able and modern energy for all.
In all countries in which it operates, Enel is close to people and supports in particular the most vulnerable sections of the population, both through initiatives, usually inspired by the government, that provide economic support in facing en- ergy costs, as well as through projects in developing coun- tries that promote access to energy by a greater number of persons. This commitment is confirmed in the 2020-2022. 
Strategic Plan through the definition of specific objectives, including an increase in renewable sources, energy efficien- cy initiatives, the development of sustainable and circular products and services, engaging local communities through a creating shared value model. The Strategic Plan, the Sus- tainability Plan that describes in detail their objectives and. 
BD. 
E&C. 
O&M 93 65 1,2171. 
TOTAL 1,3752 3 85 5 5 59 1 81 1,063 70. 
Thermal Generation. 
Renewable Energies. 
Infrastructure and Networks. 
Business Development. 
Engineering & Construction. 
Operation & Maintenance. 
CSV Applications. 
CSV Applications. 
CSV Applications. 
CSV Applications. 
CSV Applications. 
CSV Applications. 
CSV Applications. 
CSV Applications. 
CSV Applications. 
CSV Applications. 
CSV Applications. 
CSV Applications. 
CSV Applications 1 The total value includes 2 CSV applications relative to the market area in Colombia and Peru and a project in Chile covering all business areas. 2 As regards the NFS perimeter (excluding companies consolidated using the equity method, foundations and non-profit organisations of the Group, and the companies for which the BSO - Build, Sell and Operate mechanism was applied) the number of applications for 2019 equals 1,318 (in relation to 699 in 2018).


112 Sustainability Report 2019 installed capacity (more than 600 MW in operation and 900. 
MW under construction), with a presence in different coun- tries, including South Africa and Zambia. In Asia, the Group is present in India through its subsidiary BLP Energy, one of the country’s main renewable energy companies, which owns and manages 172 MW of wind capacity, producing approximately 300 GWh a year in Gujarat and Maharashtra.
In parallel to the development of new renewable capaci- ty, and in line with what is required by the SDGs, Enel has defined a specific commitment for SDG 7 “Affordable and clean energy”: reach 10 million people by 2030. This target is expressed through projects related, for example, to rural electrification, development of capacity, technology transfer, financial support to promote access to energy or innovative solutions, as well as partnership agreements with relevant stakeholders. In 2019, in developing countries alone, slightly more than 200 projects were created that reached approx- imately 1.1 million beneficiaries. During 2018-2019, more than 200 partnerships were stipulated regarding this topic (see the paragraph “Listening to stakeholders, knowing the territory and measuring created value”).
Some examples are provided below of initiatives that Enel is adopting in developing countries to support access to en- ergy and that were promoted by the various business lines.
> Cundinamarca 100% (Colombia): the programme aims to provide energy to families in areas that are dif- ficult to access with wide geographical dispersion. The project was started in 2016 with the participation of pub- lic partners and private associations, using three meth- ods: connection to conventional power grids, installation of solar panels with back-up batteries and the construc- tion of a mini-grid to guarantee access to energy 24/7. In 2019, 722 new families were connected, increasing the total number of connected families to 2,533. In addition to guaranteeing access to energy, the programme also commitments from an ESG point of view, including access to energy and the corresponding financial and non-financial reporting are analysed and monitored by the Board of Direc- tors, through the Corporate Governance and Sustainability. 
Committee and the Control and Risk Committee (see the. 
Corporate Governance report, available at www.enel.com).
Top management is engaged on a daily basis in realising these strategic objectives by contributing towards support- ing the global challenge of guaranteeing access to energy. In line with Enel’s sustainable business model, each business line/country promotes specific initiatives for its area of re- sponsibility, such as the development of renewable assets in mature countries and in developing countries (Global Pow- er Generation Business Line), energy efficiency, responsible consumption and offers dedicated to vulnerable segments (Infrastructure and Networks, Enel X, Market-Countries). To support top management, each country is responsible for managing relationships with institutional bodies, regulatory authorities on a national, regional and local level, and as- sociations for promoting the development of solutions for access to energy according to different needs. The Innov- ability Function, both on a holding level as well as a busi- ness line/country level, also promotes the dissemination of a shared value model. It supports innovative solutions that can promote access to energy in remote areas with limited access to electricity. An example is the world’s first “Plug and Play” micro-grid launched in Chile, which is powered by a photovoltaic source with a hydrogen storage system that guarantees the supply of green energy for 24 hours, anywhere, without having to use diesel generators and is able to operate both on-grid or off-grid.
Promoting access to energy in developing countries. 
Enel’s commitment to promoting access to energy in de- veloping countries does not only involve the supply of elec- tricity, but also the possibility to supply innovative and clean technologies to the population in order to produce energy with a reduced impact on the environment. For example, in. 
Latin America in 2019, 347 MW from renewable sources be- came operational, increasing the total renewable capacity to around 13,700 MW. In Africa, Enel Green Power is currently the main private operator in the renewable sector in terms of


113 Community and shared value. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix ESG backbones Our pillars includes education and professional training projects for the start-up of production companies and support for lo- cal agricultural development.
> Cerro Iglesias (Panama): a rural zone without access to electric energy near the Cerro Iglesias hydroelec- tric power plant. It was illuminated thanks to a creat- ing shared value project together with the Oficina de. 
Electrificación Rural (OER) of the Prime Minister of the. 
Republic of Panama. Thanks to the joint effort with lo- cal authorities, today almost 2 thousand residents of the community located in the Panamanian district of Nole. 
Duima, in the comarca of Ngäbe-Buglé, receive electric- ity in their homes. The project has make it possible to build approximately 14 km of transmission line, install 263 street illumination plants and electrify 423 homes.
It is sustainable and renewable energy that permits the residents of the small village today to have illuminated roads and the electricity needed to power their local business activities, schools and health care system.
> Marginal city areas and rural electrification for in- digenous communities (Chile): the purpose of the initiative is to improve living conditions for more than 200 families that live in the Medialuna camp, located in the municipality of Lampa. Enel Distribución and Fun- dación Techo have created an alliance that has produced the initial result of constructing a “community centre” that will be powered by renewable energy from pho- tovoltaic panels, provided with air conditioning and ef- ficient lighting systems. This space not only offers a new meeting point and a recreation area, it will also be the ideal place for developing seminars suitable for the entire community: training courses to reinforce working skills and educational activities such as waste manage- ment, the installation of recycling points or the creation of a community garden. This project will be extended to residential customers in a vulnerable situation who live in the Enel concession area. The initiatives for im- proving access to energy for indigenous communities located near the company plants are still continuing. For example, in the rural community of Pehuén di Callaqui,
Alto Bío Bío, in the VIII Region of Chile, 52 families have benefited from the installation of electrical systems in their homes. The systems were supplied complete with electrical lines and the relative authorisations, with the installation of material outside and outside the homes, thereby guaranteeing the quality of the service supplied.
> Project Ecoenel (Brazil): the project, which was launched in 2007, allows providing discounts for the electricity bill for all customers who recycle their waste and bring it to specific collection points. In 2019, this pro- ject was also extended to the state of San Paolo, as well as the states of Rio de Janeiro, Ceará and Goiás in Brazil.
The project also includes specific training on aware and efficient energy consumption (“Enel Shares Efficien- cy”). Furthermore, visits were also made to customer homes to evaluate the possibility of accessing the so- cial tariff and provide information about efficient energy use. In 2019, the EcoEnel project reached approximately 180,000 direct beneficiaries (vulnerable customers who are facilitated), recycled 59,000 t of waste, created 240 eco collection points and involved 43 municipalities.
> Fundación Pachacútec (Peru): this institute, which is located near the coastal area of Ventanilla, in the prov- ince of Callao, promotes professional courses in indus- trial electric technology for low-income business own- ers and local youth who want to start their professional development in the electric sector. The participants had the opportunity to work as part of the staff of the e-dis- tribuzione contractors in Peru or to start their own small/ medium-sized local business. The courses, which were also carried out by Enel employees on a voluntary basis, helped 90% of the almost 700 beneficiaries of the pro- gramme to enter the working world in the electrical sec- tor. A good part of the people finishing the course were women, who had the possibility to start their profession in a sector that normally was considered only for men.
As regards strategic partnerships, the project carried out with Liter of Light was completed, which promoted work- shops targeted towards the construction and maintenance of small solar generation units that use plastic bottles and other recycled materials. More than 2,500 solar kits were distributed through the workshop in schools in Peru, Chile,
Argentina, Romania, South Africa, Brazil and Italy. By means of learning-by-doing, the workshop allowed students to learn about the possibilities deriving from material recycling from the point of view of a circular economy (through the recon- version of kerosene lamps into electric lamps powered by solar energy), and open source lighting technologies. Fur- thermore, Enel is contributing towards the programme of the. 
Brazilian government (“Electricity Social Tariff”), in favour of low-income families, which offers discounts for energy bills up to a reduction of 65% of the normal residential rate.


114 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Fighting energy poverty in developed countries. 
Although access to energy is guaranteed in developed coun- tries, there are consumers who struggle to pay their ener- gy bills, following the serious global crisis that has affected low-income families in these countries in particular. Even if governments have the primary responsibility of guarantee- ing sustainable, safe and economic access to basic energy services, the electric sector can contribute towards promot- ing sustainable social-economic development.
Enel has always been committed to collaborating with gov- ernments to combat energy poverty and promote access to energy for the vulnerable population of developed countries.
Enel’s commitment to reaching SDG 7 has been amplified in that sense and for 2030 it will involve all the countries in which the Group operates, and not just developing coun- tries such as Africa, Asia and Latin America (see the para- graph “Listening to stakeholders, knowing the territory and measuring created value” in this chapter).
Over the past years, Enel has adopted different forms of support, often through existing government initiatives, in order to reduce the cost of the energy bill for vulnerable customers in developed markets, such as Italy, Spain and. 
Romania (see also the paragraph “Care of vulnerable cus- tomers” in the chapter “Infrastructure, eco systems and platforms”).
Various campaigns and activities were also organised to provide the population living in vulnerable conditions with advice about responsible energy consumption.
Here are some examples of the projects carried out in Spain: > energy volunteer programme, launched by Endesa and the Endesa Foundation with the purpose to help low-income families by providing them with specific advice about responsible energy consumption by dis- tributing energy efficiency kits and, in some cases, introducing improvements to the electrical systems of the most vulnerable families. In many cases, the programme helped obtain an average reduction in the energy bill of up to 30%. This initiative is managed by volunteers, from Endesa staff, in close collaboration with civil society organisations. In 2018-2019, the pro- gramme benefited more than 2,400 families, 772 of them in 2019. The 2020 edition of the project has also been started; > training in responsible energy consumption and bill optimisation, which in 2019 resulted in the organisa- tion of three training sessions held in Tenerife, Fuerte- ventura and Zaragoza, with the participation of approxi- mately 77 institutions that estimate providing advice to approximately 9,000 people per year who struggle to pay their energy bill; > initiative against energy poverty (pilot project Re- luCe), an innovative management method for the con- sumption of electricity through a pre-paid system that also permits providing information regarding how to save money by promoting efficiency consumption and the control of family expenses. During 2019, 18 families in Bilbao who participated in the project were able to re- duce their electrical expenses by 23%, and almost 70% of these families adapted their consumption based on the proposed recharges. The system sends a warning if a high rate of consumption is detected, notifies if close to reaching the available balance, sends messages to encourage efficient consumption attitudes. Finally if the customer, when reaching the balance, does not make the pre-paid recharge, the power is reduced to a level that permits covering basic needs, therefore avoiding an interruption of the service.


115 Community and shared value. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix ESG backbones Our pillars. 
Enel’s 2020-2022 Strategic Plan confirms the Group’s at- tention to aspects such as growth of renewables and the development of low-carbon technologies, such as the digitalization of the grids, installation of charging stations, software platforms and public lighting, thereby abandoning investments in coal plants and the construction of large in- frastructure projects with a high environmental impact. This strategy helps the Group be more flexible and minimise the impacts on the ecosystem, territory and community.
Presence in such a vast geographic perimeter of countries and regions necessarily calls for the evaluation of very dif- ferent scenarios and radical knowledge of each area and the needs of the various stakeholders in order to identify targeted solutions. Each infrastructure project is discussed therefore, with evaluations by the community and involved stakeholders, which could involve criticism or partial ac- ceptance in some cases, especially when related to reset- tlement activities. In these latter cases, the Group may be exposed to reputational risks, also in relation to their inter- action with local suppliers, as well as operational risks relat- ed to delays in executing projects or completing them, with possible repercussions on the supply chain. The involve- ment of the stakeholders in the processes for the planning and development of the infrastructure is of fundamental importance, especially if the construction of a new plant involves the resettlement of a part of the resident popula- tion in the surrounding areas. Resettlement management must involve the population and the concerned persons as well as a close evaluation of the psychological and social problems that are possible at an individual and collective level. The approach in selecting potential sites is therefore to minimise as much as possible the need to move the population. This is done by analysing the economic, polit- ical, cultural and social-demographic aspects, including an analysis of the daily life of the communities that live in the area of influence, the distribution of the population, the organisational forms, the employment and remuneration levels. In the cases in which resettlement is confirmed,
Main projects in progress and resettlement management the project is carried out in compliance with applicable in- ternational standards, considering possible impacts on the different forms of physical, human, economic, environmen- tal and cultural capital of the concerned populations. Any resettlement projects will be carried out in compliance with the applicable legislation of the involved country, including the local regulations that specify the conditions for resettle- ment and the methods for calculating the related economic compensation. Enel’s sensitivity regarding this issue is also reflected in the Human Rights Policy approved in 2013 by the Board of Directors (see chapter “Sound governance”).
A description is provided below of the most significant cas- es in progress related to plants constructed in the past but that present residual areas of criticality, the positive and/ or negative impacts (actual or ‘feared’) on the territory and the way in which the concerned Group companies are pro- moting a proactive dialogue to reach solutions that are as widely shared as possible.
Bocamina plant (Chile)
The Bocamina II plant is a 350 MW coal-fired thermoelectric power plant whose construction started in 2007 in the mu- nicipality of Coronel, Region of Bío Bío, in Chile. The plant is part of the Bocamina coal-fired thermoelectric power plant, whose first unit, 128 MW, was built in the 60s and put in op- eration in the 1970. The second unit was built in an area next to the first, with approximately 1,300 families living nearby.
When the construction of the second unit started, the initial agreements were signed in the area of the municipality of. 
Coronel with the families of the communities near the plant.
At the end of 2019, out of a total of 1,337 families, 1,237 were relocated. The method for relocating families has been completely reviewed and aligned with the main applicable international standards, including standard IFC no. 5 “Land. 
Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement”.
Starting in January 2017, Enel started a detailed analysis pro- 103-2 103-3. 
DMA EU (former EU 19) DMA EU (former EU 20) 102-42 102-43 102-44 EU22


116 Sustainability Report 2019 cess in order to identify the suitable actions to implement in order to improve relationships with the local community. This analysis was carried out also with the support of a company with considerable experience in this topic, “Environmental. 
Resources Management” (ERM), and an action plan was pre- pared based on the results. Community relations were man- aged based on the criteria of accountability, transparency, measurement and fairness of the solutions, in order to create shared value over the long term. The main actions concerned: > the identification of structural improvements needed for the homes in the communities of Huertos Familiares and. 
Doña Isidora. In 2018, a technical committee was formed, comprised of representatives of the Company, the com- munity and the CITEC (Universidad del Bío Bío), which fo- cused on identifying the repairs that were necessary for the homes with construction defects. During 2019, the technical problems were identified for all the houses and the repair work was planned, to be started in 2020; > the creation of a dashboard summarising the impacts on the quality of life of the families due to the construction de- fects in the homes in which the communities lived starting from 2010, as well as the quantification and liquidation of the relative compensation; > the relocation of the churches that had not been involved in the resettlement process. To date, 7 churches are being built, and the first was opened at the beginning of 2020; > the agreement for the reconstruction of the historical school in Coronel, “Rosa Medel”, in another location, in- cluding financing by Enel Generación of soil study and the cofinancing for the reconstruction of the school; > the development of the programme “Mi barrio, nuestro barrio” (“My neighbourhood, our neighbourhood”) which includes the implementation of requalification projects for new and pre-existing neighbourhoods in the area of plant influence. During 2019, construction was completed for a sports centre in the community of Huertos Familiares as well as eco-construction works of the site in the Cerro Ob- ligado neighbourhood and a recreational area with green spaces and eco-sustainable infrastructures; > the development of a transparent and fair system for managing community claims and/or requests. This system made it possible to successfully resolve more than 100 cases, thanks to a multifunctional team that includes legal experts as well as resettlement and sus- tainability consultants, and that guarantees the verifiabil- ity, transparency and fairness of the solutions.
During 2019, innovative initiatives were implemented for local economic development, the recovery of public spac- es and the development of the human capital of Coronel, including: > circular economy projects: in the community of Cerro. 
Obligado a training project was started previously for women in eco-construction and eco-furnishing. The pro- ject was implemented in collaboration with the Sembra. 
NGO, and as of today has trained four women. Today the so-called ecological carpenters work in their labora- tory in Coronel, where they reuse pallets and other ma- terials from various local industries, transforming them into furniture and other types of objects. The workshop also has electrical means of transport to deliver their products. As of today, this company has recycled more than 1,000 pallets coming from local industry and has made more than 700 pieces of furniture; > participatory art for the recovery of public spaces: by means of a community participatory process, Chile’s longest mural was created in Coronel, located outside the perimeter wall of the Bocamina power plant. The project involved more than 70 people, from children of the age of 7 up to 80 year old grandparents; > Coronel cleaning plan: the plan involves the elimination of the micro-waste landfills and the removal of residual materials from the homes where the transferred fam- ilies lived previously, avoiding environmental impacts and situations of abandonment and insecurity; > Casa Abierta Coronel: a place of reference for the en- tire community, in line with Enel’s Open Power vision, where it is possible to speak openly with the Company, receive information, communicate any complaints and evaluate solutions with a group of available experts.
The criteria at the basis are transparency, fairness and non-discrimination.
In 2019, Enel Chile signed an agreement with the country’s government for the gradual decommissioning of the three coal-fired electric power plants. The first, Tarapacá, was closed in December 2019, whereas the Bocamina 1 and 2 power plants are to be closed respectively in 2023 and 2040.
Further information can be found in the Enel Chile and Enel. 
Generación Chile Sustainability Report (www.enelgenera- cion.cl).


117 Community and shared value. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix ESG backbones Our pillars. 
Alto Bío Bío plants (Ralco, Pangue and Palmucho – Chile)
Enel Generación Chile manages three hydroelectric power plants in the area of Alto Bío Bío (Ralco, Pangue and Palmu- cho), an area that is characterized by the historical presence of the indigenous Pehuenche populations. In numbers, the. 
Pehuenche population in the area of influence of the plants amounts to approximately 3,000 people, made up of 800 families in 10 communities (Pitril, Callaqui, El Avellano, Aukiñ
Wallmapu, Quepuca Ralco, Ralco Lepoy, El Barco, Guayalí,
Pewen Mapu and Ayin Mapu).
In February 2017, an important collaboration agreement was signed with 25 families of the Aukiñ Wallmapu community to start local development projects. The agreement resolves the conflict regarding the impacts generated during the con- struction of the Ralco plant. In March 2017, Enel Generación. 
Chile officially handed over its ancestral cemetery to the community of El Barco. This was made possible thanks to the support of the Director General de la Corporación Na- cional de Desarollo Indigena (CONADI) of the Bío Bío region, thereby concretely demonstrating the commitment the. 
Company made with the community following the construc- tion of the Pangue power plant. In June 2017, Enel Gener- ación Chile also signed two agreements with the El Avellano and Quepuca Ralco communities.
Social-economic development. 
Following a request made mainly by the El Avellano com- munity, a community project was created in 2018 for the collection, transformation and sale of hazelnuts. In 2019, the production department was inaugurated, which made it possible for the community to transform its autochthonous hazelnuts into subproducts to supply to the market, thereby expanding sales to other customers. The project is promot- ed by Enel Generación Chile, together with the University of Concepción, the community of El Avellano, the munici- pality of Alto Bío Bío and the Pehuén foundation. It made it possible to transform a traditional activity into a micro-entre- preneurial activity for the community, while also preserving the natural hazelnut forest. In consideration of the touristic and recreational potential of the areas near the plants, and in order to promote the social-economic development of the local communities, specific projects promoting sustainable tourism were started. In particular, one was started for the area adjacent to the El Barco Laguna, where local business people currently offer camping, tour and gastronomy ser- vices. More than 6,000 tourists visit the area every season, representing an important potential for this initiative. The collaboration between Enel and the community was carried out mainly in order to improve the health situation of the area, install new toilet facilities and drains for the treatment of the waste water. A project is being developed in Los Cha- icanes to promote potato cultivation. The initiative, which in- itially aimed to sell the tuber locally to be eaten fresh, led to the production of seed potatoes and the recognition of the project by the agricultural and zootechnical service (Servicio. 
Agrícola y Ganadero - SAG) as one of the 17 producers au- thorised to sell seed potatoes in the 32 communities of the region of La Araucanía.
As concerns the direct support of local families and stu- dents, Enel assigns scholarships to finance school fees, the accommodations for young people in the cities where the schools are located and other school materials. This initiative has involved more than 700 students.
Shared and sustainable water management. 
The Chilean Ministry of Public Works and Enel Generación. 
Chile have signed an agreement, which was subsequently ratified also with the local associations that manage the irri- gation channels in the area of Saltos del Laja, in the Bío Bío region. The objective of the agreement is to improve the flexibility of use of the water, ensuring the supply to families and the power generation. The initiative is the result of a


118 Sustainability Report 2019. 
El Quimbo plant (Colombia) 
El Quimbo is the most imposing civil engineering project realised by the Enel Group over the past years and rep- resents one of the greatest hydroelectric investments in. 
South America. The power plant has an installed capacity of more than 400 MW and is located in the region of Huila, south-west of Bogotá. With a shared and participatory ap- proach, starting from December 2014, a multi-year plan of social-environmental projects was defined in favour of the local population, and in particular families living in or owning property in the area of project influence, as well as those who work or have business activities and services in this area. The families that were surveyed and who meet the requirements were given the possibility to decide between relocation (collective/individual) and the sale of their land.
Of the 152 families who decided for relocation, 40 selected individual relocation, receiving land for their productive and residential project. The remaining 112 families opted for relocation in the collective settlements (Montea, Santiago y Palacio, Llano de la Virgen, San José de Belén), with new homes provided with essential services and inserted with- in an urban context with schools, churches, multi-purpose sports facilities, a football field, green areas, a waste recy- cling centre and waste water treatment plants. Each family also received 5 hectares of land with an irrigation system in order to develop their own productive activity (crops or mini ranches).
Social-cultural management. 
In 2019, within the scope of the policy of creating shared value with the community of the collective resettlement of. 
San José de Belén de le Veredas, La Galda and Yaguilga, of the municipality of El Agrado, in the Department of Hui- la, 20 wells for the irrigation of the crops were constructed and placed in operation4. Meetings continued and were in- tensified between the elderly, children and young people of the resettled communities, to promote the transmission of the historical memory of the area and intergenerational ex- change. Two training courses were held for the community leaders, together with seven support activities for the main- 4 Even if in 2018 an agreement was reached with the communities for the construction of 23 wells, at the end of 2018 an agreement was signed for the construction of 21 wells, and, in 2019, 20 were built, as 3 families decided to withdraw from the project.
joint effort with the associations Canalistas del Laja and Can- alistas del Canal Zañartu, Dirección de Obras Hidráulicas, Di- rección General de Aguas, Enel Generación Chile, Ministerio de Agricultura, Ministerio de Energía and Comisión Nacional de Riego. There is also an agreement with the municipality of Antuco in order to start a pilot project to promote tourism in the area of Salto del Trubunleo during summer. In order to manage possible contingent or emergency situations in a quick and coordinated manner, a specific communication system was defined between the power plants of Pangue and Ralco of Enel Generación Chile, the Angostura di Colbún power station, the municipalities of Alto Bío Bío, Quilaco and. 
Santa Bárbara, the Ministry of the Interior and Public Securi- ty (ONEMI) and the Ministry of Energy. For further informa- tion, please refer to Enel Chile and Enel Generación Chile. 
Sustainability Reports (www.enelgeneracion.cl).
Just a bit more south, in the region of Los Lagos, in the Map- uche community of Mapu Pilmaiquén, a project was started to return approximately 6 hectares of indigenous land near the Pilmaiquén hydroelectric power station. Today, the com- munity manages this territory with a sustainable tourism project, opening the area’s ecosystem to visitors, which is explained according to the Mapuche cosmovision of con- servation of the equilibrium of natural resources. This are- as, which is called Parque La Isla, welcomes approximately 6,000 tourists every year, which brings economic benefits to the community. A large amount of their profits are invested in park conservation. Thanks to the training of local artisans and the growing flow of visitors, an increasing number of people can benefit from this project by selling their products.
To guarantee the presence of the beautiful waterfalls, Enel. 
Generación Chile releases the water from its hydroelectric operation to the benefit of local tourism.
In the region of Maule, where Enel Generación Chile shares the available water in the hydroelectric basins with the agri- cultural sector, a project was started already in 2015 for the optimisation of the agricultural irrigation process, in collabo- ration with CITRA (Center for Irrigation and Agroclimatology. 
Research ) of the University of Talca. Thanks to the adopted techniques, it is possible to reduce water use by more than 40%. More than 700 farmers were trained in sustainable irri- gation techniques and experimental fields were started with the local agricultural school to train the new generations.


119 Community and shared value. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix ESG backbones Our pillars tenance of the common areas and more than 40 activities to reinforce integration between the resettled communities and the communities welcoming them. Finally, approximate- ly 400 psychological support activities were carried out for all the resettled families and 18 training courses focused on channels for managing marketing and accounting for sup- porting the agricultural production plans (PPA).

Local economic development. 
During 2019, projects were continued and new ones were started in favour of the community, in collaboration with im- portant bodies and associations. In particular: > with the National Training Service - SENA (Servicio Na- cional de Aprendizaje) training activities were carried out for the communities of Garzón and Nueva Escalereta; > with the Public Administration High School - ESAP (Es- cuela Superior de Administración Publica) a seminar was organised for sustainable projects for community lead- ers in the municipality of Gigante, with the participation of 29 leaders and officials of the public administration; > with the Sirolli institute, through the application of a spe- cific professional orientation methodology and custom- ised support based on product analysis, marketing and financial management it was possible to start 23 com- panies in the region. This contributed towards economic growth and the generation of 49 jobs with permanent contracts and 24 jobs with fixed-period contracts.
> with the Rural development agency - ADR legal and tax advice was provided to the ASOFUNDADORES and. 
ASOPESCADA associations for the qualification process for access to a special tax system, and the ASOSANJO-
SE association, for the creation of a non-profit entity for the irrigation district.
In 2019, the cooperation agreement stipulated with Casa. 
Luker, the Unites States Agency for International Develop- ment - USAID, Eafit University and the Saldarriaga Concha foundation was started for promoting the seeding of 700 hectares of cocoa, initially in six communes of Huila: El Agra- do, Garzón, Gigante, El Pital, Campoalegre and Rivera, there- by promoting an improvement in the living conditions of the producers and generating inclusive rural development. As part of the “Obras por Impuestos”, mechanism, furniture was provided to 70 educational sites in the communes of. 
Tello and Baraya in order to improve the educational quality standards in these areas that are historically affected by the armed conflict in Colombia.
Environmental management. 
The educational and support projects continued for the man- agement and rational use of natural resources and environ- mental protection in the communities in the area of direct and indirect influence, including the educational institutions of the six communes in the area. In particular, in 2019 the following was carried out: 134 initiatives for reinforcing envi- ronmental education in educational institutes; 149 activities for environmental promotion with social actors of six com-


120 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Other projects 850 MW EGP-Nareva consortium wind power program. 
In March 2016, a consortium of three companies, Enel. 
Green Power, Siemens Wind Power and the Moroccan pow- er company Nareva, was awarded the project for the devel- opment, construction and management of five wind plants in the communes of Midelt, Tanger, Jbel Lahdid, Boujdour and Tiskrad with a total installed capacity of 850 MW. Their construction will require a total investment of approximately 1 billion euros.
In preparation of the tender process described above, Enel. 
Green Power carried out a preliminary analysis of the social, economic and environmental context (SEECA) with the help of external specialists in the areas where it planned to build the plants. The SEECA identified the relevant social-econom- ic issues and the specific needs of the local communities munes (more than 1,000 participants), 11 training courses for the communities, 508 visits for promoting good environ- mental practices with the resettled families; eight ecological groups, 49 actions focused on sustainable tourism together with the local administration and the community organisa- tions.
In general, Enel is adopting all the measures necessary for preventing and managing the environmental impact associ- ated with the project, including: > a plan for managing wild fauna, with the recovery of ap- proximately 40 thousand animals during 2015-2019; > a programme for managing fishing, which identified 25 species of fish, with a total capture of approximately 239,000 kg with more than 413,000 fish; > a plan for the recovery of the habitat of the wild fauna, through the replanting of approximately 31,000 plants and the installation of various structures for the protec- tion of the fauna. Furthermore, the activities of the re- search centre established by Emgesa continued; > an ecological restoration programme for the protection and development of native species in the tropical dry forests through a quality analysis of the fruits, seeds and percentage of germination.
Communication channels and legal proceedings. 
Specific communication channels were defined to provide information and respond to all the questions from the com- munity regarding the project (dedicated web page, social channels, newsletter, etc.). In 2019, approximately 1,000 complaints were received through the community relations offices regarding the services and commitments included in the Environmental License, to which prompt responses were given. In 2019, 177 accompaniment and consultancy visits were carried out in the four resettlements. Additional initiatives and information about the projects are available in the Emgesa Sustainability Report 2019 (https://www.enel.
com.co/es/medio-ambiente-desarrollo-sostenible.html) and on the website dedicated to the project (https://www.enel.
com.co/es/conoce-enel/enel-emgesa/el-quimbo.html).


121 Community and shared value. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix ESG backbones Our pillars that include: develop of infrastructures, development of edu- cation, health care, development of services, poverty, social services, land ownership and protection of cultural heritage.
Furthermore, an Environmental Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) was carried out in compliance with the standards of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and with the guide- lines of the European Bank, for investments in the Midelt pro- ject, which is being carried out for the Boujdour project and will be developed for the remaining projects.
ONEE (Office National de l’Electricité et de l’Eau Potable) car- ried out a process of consultation with various stakeholders, with the involvement of the Enel Green Power-Nareva con- sortium in Midelt, Boujdour and Jbel Lahdid. At the end of each consultation, a question and answer session was held.
The process of analysing the project impacts and benefits will guide the definition and adopting of the Sustainability Plan for each project.
Enel Green Power operates in full compliance with the laws applicable to the investment in question. This investment does not involve extraction activities, and the use of local re- newable resources will support the social, economic and en- vironmental development of the various areas involved. The investment also complies with the principles adopted by the international community concerning environmental protection and the reduction of emissions from coal. In all of the areas in- volved in the projects, the consortium will carry out a second. 
SEECA, also to identify any updates to the analyses that were carried out previously. The actions and projects identified by the analyses will be developed when the plant is in opera- tion. However, starting from the project development phase, the consortium will also implement sustainability activities to mitigate the environmental impacts, in particular as concerns water, emissions and waste, by creating a sustainable con- struction site. The impacts on local social and employment aspects will also be managed through the requirements of technical specifications during every tender phase prior to the construction of the plant, and will be monitored as a result.
For the Midelt plant, the financial close took place on Novem- ber 5, 2018, and the construction phase started in December 2018 and will end in November 2020. The Midelt construc- tion site has been constructed according to the model of a sustainable construction site. It is creating positive impacts on local communities in terms of employment and the training/ transfer of skills: 300 workers, selected from local commu- nities, were trained and employed by contractors and active local SMBs, for example in the transport, hotel, restaurant and cleaning sectors.
Furthermore, the environmental impacts were measured and therefore mitigated by adopting virtuous solutions and actions regarding emissions, water consumption and waste.
The main solutions that were implemented are indicated be- low: > CO2 emissions: photovoltaic mini-grid to power the base camp and auxiliary services; generation of photovolta- ic energy integrated with batteries used to power the turbine monitoring phase, autonomous photovoltaic modules to power prefabricated buildings/containers at the base camp; street lights powered by photovoltaic plants; > the use of water, encouraging recycling: the construc- tion of small dams for rain water and water collection systems with tanks on trucks; the reuse of rain water for the production of concrete, while avoiding pollution due to dust; restoration of the drilling well used by the community and installation of a pumping system via a photovoltaic system; installation of the water treatment system; > use of materials and recycling: crushing and reuse of 100% of the excavation materials originating from works during construction to improve the conditions of the roads and hillsides, and to create new access roads and bridges used also by the community; recycling of waste water using a septic tank; recycling waste deriv- ing from liquid oil, recycling of the utilised wood pallets to create signs at the site.
Further actions will be implemented during the construction phase in Midelt during 2020, and a second SEECA was al- ready started at the site in order to update the issues that emerged during the first analysis and develop specific sus- tainability projects during the O&M (Operation and Mainte- nance) phase.
As regards the Boujdour project, the consortium has start- ed the preliminary activities in view of the construction that will start during the second half of 2020. The sustainability actions applied to Midelt will be replicated also at Boujdour, including the actions for supporting the creation of jobs for the local community and the use of local SMBs.


122 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Value for the countries and local areas 103-2 103-3 203-1. 
Initiatives in favour of communities by type 2019 (%)
Charitable donations 3.8. 
Investments in communities 65.7. 
Commercial initiatives with a social impact 30.5. 
Enel contributes concretely to the development and social and economic growth of the areas and communities where it op- erates with different types of interventions, ranging from the expansion of the infrastructures to education and training pro- grams, from initiatives targeted towards social inclusion initia- tives to projects that support the local cultural life. The LBG (Lon- don Benchmarking Group) method, defined by a work group in which more than 100 international companies participate, iden- tifies a measurement model that makes it possible to clearly determine and classify the Company’s contribution towards the development of the communities where it is present.
In particular, according to the LBG standard, the expense for the contributions to the communities can be divided as follows: > donations: pro bono contributions and without obliga- tions for the beneficiaries, except that they have to use the donation for charitable purposes and for non-profit associations. For Enel, this item includes all the mone- tary and “in kind” charitable donations, including those for philanthropic and solidarity activities; > investments in the community: medium-long term involve- ment in community support projects, also in partnership with local organisations, targeted towards facing signifi- cant problems both for the local area as well as for the. 
Company. This category includes, for example, projects related to a wider strategy to the benefit of the commu- nity, such as “Access to electricity”, or specific initiatives dedicated to the communities near the power plants; > commercial initiatives with a social impact: contributes to activities connected to the core business, in which the. 
Company promotes its own brand and its own corporate identity. Examples of these initiatives are the marketing campaigns that also provide benefits for the community, or that include contributions for charitable purposes.
In 2019, Enel contributed more than 1225 million euros to the communities in which it operates.
5 This amount relates to: > Cash contributions - approximately 112 million euros; > Time: employee volunteering during paid working hours - approximately 3 million euros; > In-kind giving: product or services donations, projects/partnerships or similar - approximately 1 million euros; > Management overheads - approximately 6 million euros.


123 Community and shared value. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix ESG backbones Our pillars which the judge ordered the suspension of the sen- tence with so-called “probation”, an alternative meas- ure to detention, which involves a process of self-as- sessment and growth for the development of soft skills and technical-professional training in a digital field, in line with the current job market demand. The initia- tives involved 20 teenagers who committed crimes in. 
Rome. At the end of the 250 hours of training, 10 of the minors will start internships at a company and so- cial-economic reintegration processes; > Miglior inizio (A better start), a pilot project devel- oped on a national level to support infancy and new parents during the most delicate phase of their child’s life. This project includes material (such as a contri- bution towards food or daycare expenses) as well as psych-social support actions, with the aim of strength- ening the skills of parents during the perinatal period.
A social network has been created in support of the project that, by integrating accredited bodies and ser- vices, will make the initiative sustainable over time.
The project involves five large cities; > Nuovo e Grande Buzzi (New and large Buzzi), a pro- ject that involves the construction of a new 7-storey pavilion connected to the Buzzi paediatric hospital in. 
Milan, dedicated to emergencies and high intensity care. The new pavilion will house the emergency room, the day hospital, operating rooms, the intensive and sub-intensive paediatric care unit and neonatal patholo- gy. Enel Cuore has decided to support the Buzzi Foun- dation by donating a new 3 Tesla whole-body magnetic resonance machine, contributing towards the creation of Italy’s first “x-ray free” paediatric hospital.
For more information please refer to www.enelcuore.it/en.html.
Enel Cuore Onlus was founded in 2003 due to Enel’s de- sire to express its commitment to social solidarity on a more transparent manner. It supports initiatives promoted by non profit organisations that address the wellbeing of the individual and the family, in particular in the communi- ties where Enel is present.
During 2019, the Group confirmed its orientation towards multi-year projects with a large impact and dimension for the community regarding specific current issues. Spac- es for learning, growth, study and work were created for children and youth, to help them become independent. As regards the topic of educational inequality, projects were promoted to offer young people living in socially-econom- ically disadvantaged situations the same educational and cultural opportunities as those who instead have all the economic and social means that are necessary. Finally, specific interventions were carried out in favour of children in health structures, promoting their accommodation and the assistance of patients and families through parental support projects as well as through the donation of state- of-the-art equipment. The main projects targeted towards children, adolescents and the future generations are de- scribed below: > Base Camp for Future Education, an experimental, two-year project that offers educational opportunities to adolescents with economic difficulties in the periph- eral areas of Rome, Naples and Palermo, through the creation of three educational “Base Camp” centres, that is learning environments where a team of careful- ly selected and trained teachers, educators and psy- chologists work to help teenagers between the ages of 13 and 16, following them in their studies through an empathetic and stimulating approach to help them with their school education. There is also a calendar of high-quality cultural and artistic events targeted to- wards the students and the community in the territory where the Base Camp is active, in order to provide fur- ther simulation to people who would otherwise find it difficult to access this type of offer; > Fenix project, a rehabilitation process that promotes the reinsertion of minors who committed crimes for. 
Enel Cuore Onlus (non-profit organisation)


124 Sustainability Report 2019. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2021 TARGETS 2019 RESULTS CATEGORIES. 
Coverage of web applications posted on the internet with advanced cyber security application solutions 100% 100% Cyber security. 
Disseminating the IT security culture and changing people’s behaviour in order to reduce risks 15 cyber security knowledge sharing events held each year 16 events delivered Cyber security. 
Information security verification activities (Ethical Hacking, Vulnerability Assessment, etc.) 350 verification activities per year More than 800 verification actions carried out. 
Cyber security 2019 2021 Innovation and digitalization Plan. 
Innovation and digitalization (1/2) 9
11 9
11 9
11 102-15


125. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Innovation and digitalization. 
Our pillars ESG backbones 2020 2022 Innovation and digitalization Plan. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2022 TARGETS CATEGORIES. 
Coverage of web applications posted on the internet with advanced cyber security application solutions 100% Cyber security. 
Disseminating the IT security culture and changing people’s behaviour in order to reduce risks 15 cyber security knowledge sharing events held each year Cyber security. 
Information security verification activities (Ethical Hacking, Vulnerability Assessment, etc.) 500 verification activities per year Cyber security 9
11 9
11 9
11


126 Sustainability Report 2019. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2021 TARGETS 2019 RESULTS CATEGORIES. 
Activities to reduce CO2 emissions -16 mil pages printed (2019-2021) -21 mil pages printed1 Technologies and digitalization. 
Social inclusion. 
Dissemination of teleprecence telepresence video communication systems through a centralised platform > Roll-out of the new videocommunication platform > ~244 thousand meetings held in videocommunication mode. 
Activities to reduce PC, laptop and monitor downtime > ~32 mil hours of disuse in downtime2; > “Energy Saving” course launched on e-Ducation platform. 
Promoting global partnerships and supporting high-potential startups. 
Opening of a new Innovation Hub in 2019 1 new Innovation Hub3 Partnerships. 
Industrial growth. 
Technologies and digitalization. 
Social inclusion. 
Development in the business of 60 projects with startups > 83 Partnerships > +80 projects launched in the year with startups4 2019 2021 Innovation and digitalization Plan. 
Innovation and digitalization (2/2) 12 9
17 102-15


127. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Innovation and digitalization. 
Our pillars ESG backbones 1 Compared to 2018. 2 Reduction of the hours of disuse was made possible by promoting the use of portable PCs and rolling out devices offering superior energy performance. 3 From 2015 to 2019, overall Enel has developed 10 Innovation Hubs and 5 Innovation Labs dedicated to startups. 4 Refers to individual collaborations implemented by means of startups.
2020 2022 Innovation and digitalization Plan. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2022 TARGETS CATEGORIES. 
Activities to reduce CO2 emissions -10 mil pages printed Technologies and digitalization. 
Social inclusion. 
Extension of the use of videocommunication systems. 
Reduction of CO2 produced for optimisation of PCs, laptops and monitors in Italy. 
Promoting global partnerships and supporting high-potential startups Projects launched in the three-year period with startups: approximately 200 Partnerships. 
Industrial growth. 
Technologies and digitalization. 
Social inclusion. 
Adoption within the business of 30 solutions developed with startups 75 bootcamps to identify startups with which to collaborate 12 9
17


128 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Innovation and digitalization are key factors of Enel’s strategy of growth in a fast changing scenario, guaranteeing high standards of security, business continuity and operating efficiency. They involve the traditional business and the development of new technologies, both internally and externally to the Company, assuring solutions offering long-term sustainability.
The Open Innovability ecosystem. 
Enel operates by means of an Open Innovability model in which the solutions, apart from being innovative, guarantee long-term sustainability both for the business and for communities, creating shared and shareable value. An ecosystem based on open- ness and sharing that makes it possible to connect all company areas with startups, industrial partners, small and medium-sized enterprises, research centres, universi- ties and solver ecosystems, by means of various tools such as crowdsourcing plat- forms (openinnovability.com) and the Innovation Hubs network. To date, there are 83 innovation partnership agreements in place, of which 6 new agreements both global and horizontal within the Group signed in 2019, in addition to the relaunch of existing collaborations to facilitate access to credit by the startups and small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the Enel ecosystem. The partnerships make it possible to develop new solutions for electric mobility, microgrids, energy efficiency, the industrial IoT, and circular economy solutions, in addition to traditional areas of action such as renewables and conventional generation. Furthermore, a process of collaboration with the aerospace sector was launched in 2019, focused on the use of satellite technology for surveillance of power grids to prevent network losses and energy theft, and to promote cyber security.
Over the past year Enel has opened 1 new Hub in Boston, consolidating its pres- ence in the world’s leading innovation ecosystems with 10 Innovation Hubs (Sili- con Valley, Boston, Tel Aviv, Madrid, Moscow, Santiago, Rio de Janeiro, Milan, Pisa and Catania) and 5 Innovation Labs (Milan, Pisa Catania, Haifa and São Paulo). The. 
Innovation and digitalization. 
DMA EU (former EU8) 3 Innovation Hubs&Labs opened in Italy in Catania, Pisa and Milan 7 Innovation Hubs opened worldwide in Silicon Valley, Boston, Tel Aviv, Madrid, Moscow, Santiago, Rio de Janeiro 2,500 startups with which Enel came into contact 25 innovation and sustainability challenges launched by Enel. 
Sustainability Report At a Glance Performance indicators. 
Annual Report


129. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Innovation and digitalization. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
Group also further extended its areas of collaboration with startups, providing access to all 20 of the Group’s laboratories specialising in the main areas of technological development, including smart grids, renewables, and digitalization, with the aim of promoting direct liaisons between Business Lines and startups. Thanks to its capillary presence in innovation eco- systems and the organisation of more than 25 bootcamps – scouting initiatives dedicated to specific technologies of inter- est to the Group, in 2019 Enel established contact with some 2,500 startups and launched more than 60 new collabora- tions. Projects started in 2019 include collaboration with a. 
Catania-based startup engaged in building an automated plat- form for the remote control of photovoltaic plants. In addition, a network of partners has been created to help startups and small and medium-sized enterprises working with the Group to grow, gaining access to capital and industrialising their solutions to streamline wide-sale dissemination.
In conformity with statutory legislation and Enel’s compliance programs, innovation activities are managed by the Innovabil- ity (Innovation and Sustainability) Function in liaison with the. 
Holding Functions and Business Lines in all the Group’s oper- ating countries. Dedicated facilities on the Business Lines lev- el have been set up to facilitate the development and dissem- ination of innovative solutions. A three-year innovation plan is drafted annually, in line with and supporting the Group’s strategic priorities. The plan is subject to approval of the. 
Group Innovation Committee, which is chaired by the Chief. 
Executive Officer, and shared with top management. The in- novation priorities for the period 2020-2022 are connected to the Group’s strategic pillars and achievement of the Sus- tainable Development Goals, and they concern: digitalization of customer relations (apps for customers, chatbots on social networks, virtual assistants), digital payments and digital ex- tended payment plans (“Everywhere commerce”), “Voice of customer” for continual improvement, circular economy and bill discounts, inclusive offers for senior, disadvantaged, low income, and vulnerable customers, alongside a paperless sys- tem and innovative and inclusive digital services, responsible consumption, and flexible offers thanks to the use of the new. 
Open Meters. The innovation process is monitored through the use of specific indicators.
Digital portal: openinnovability.com. 
The “openinnovability.com” online crowdsourcing plat- form is a digital meeting place where the dialogue is always open and the ideas limitless. The five steps that make up the crowdsourcing process consist in identifying a need, issuing a challenge, sharing it with the outside world, as- sessing proposals received and finally, rewarding the best, also economically. The initiatives are inspired by the UN. 
Sustainable Development Goals and oriented towards fa- cilitating access to energy by promoting new technologies and seeking innovative and sustainable solutions to unre- solved problems. The community created is composed of some 400 thousand solvers and has allowed Enel to es- tablish a global presence, with more than 100 countries having actively participated in the challenges. In 2019, Enel launched 25 innovation and sustainability challenges, of which 10 cross-posted also on partner platforms, 4 dedi- cated exclusively to people working within the Company and 9 that offered the winners the opportunity of working with the Group. A total of 73 challenges have been issued since the platform was established. Among the challenges launched in 2019, we draw your attention to “Mass cus- tomization & inclusion”, aimed at collecting innovative ideas and proposals for customized products and services in relation to diversity and inclusion issues, in which the winning proposal was the “e-domorent” project for sus- tainable use of home appliances. A challenge was also launched to identify chemical free solutions for cooling circuits treatment, with the aim of eliminating or reducing the use of chemical products.


130 Sustainability Report 2019. 
The culture of Innovability. 
In 2019 Enel opened a new Idea Hub in Peru, thus strength- ening the promotion and development of a culture of innova- tion and entrepreneurship within the Company, with 6 Idea. 
Hubs already present in Chile, Colombia, Brazil, Italy, Iberia and Romania. 2019 saw the continuation of the “Innova- tion Academy” training project launched in 2017 in order to provide Enel people with skills and know-how on innovative working methods and provide soft skills training. The themat- ic areas addressed were creativity, development of ideas, col- laboration, emotional intelligence, customer focus and listen- ing in order to drive change starting from individuals. In 2019 the Academy operated in Italy, Spain, Chile, Colombia and. 
Brazil with part of the courses delivered by internal tutors and with the participation of the Idea Hubs and Innovation Ambas- sadors. The Innovation Ambassadors project, launched in 2018, has been expanded and upgraded by bringing in more than 200 Enel people from various Functions and company areas in Italy, Brazil, Chile and Colombia, in order to make in- novation an integral part of daily activities by means of spe- cific working methods. Ongoing initiatives also include the “MAKE IT HAPPEN!” entrepreneurship programme, created to allow Enel business people to emerge, with the opportu- nity to propose and develop new business models or internal improvement projects able to create value for the Company.
110 project proposals were submitted in 2019, of which 62 in the planning phase, one in the acceleration phase, and two in the implementation phase, with the involvement of more than 300 people in 11 countries.
Innovation communities. 
Energy storage, blockchains, drones, augmented and vir- tual reality, 3D printing, artificial intelligence, wearables, robotics and green hydrogen are just some of the tech- nologies addressed by the innovation communities, which involve various areas and skills within the Company.
> Drones – The use of drones continued also in 2019 in activities of asset monitoring and maintenance, inspect- ing solar energy fields, wind farms, hydroelectric dams and reservoirs, closed components in traditional plants and electricity distribution networks with the aim of boosting the efficiency of operating, maintenance and functional processes and, especially, reducing work- ers risk exposure. The community also works actively alongside the Italian regulatory bodies to support the development of civil aviation regulations applicable to drones.
> Augmented reality devices and wearables – Enel is active in collaboration and trials for spectacles and devic- es to assist with various work activities, and innovative methods for virtual meetings and new forms of remote collaboration. Wearables are mainly applied for worker safety, such as sensors to check correct use of personal protective equipment, to track personnel on job sites to avoid interference, and devices to help people carry out their work in “hands free” mode, without having to interact with potential sources of distraction including smartphones and paper documentation. The latest ap- plications include safety jackets and thermal clothing, and applications are currently being studied for tracking stress and health indicators.
> Robotics – Robotic systems are equipped with inno- vative sensors and enormous capacity for data man- agement, processing and transmission, thus becoming ever more versatile and reliable. Enel is extending the adoption of Exoskeleton technology to reduce the muscular effort required for heavy work, and Remotely. 
Operated Vehicles (ROV) used for inspection and main- tenance of plants (solar and hydroelectric).
> Artificial intelligence – The community includes vari- ous data scientists, is the most numerous, and covers a vast range of applications on safety processes, video analysis, machine learning and deep learning for classifi- cation, fault detection, predictive maintenance and virtu- al assistants. Enel is applying more than 40 digitalization and artificial intelligence technologies to manage South. 
American electricity networks for the first time. The in- itiative includes the development of a 3D replica of the. 
Vila Olímpia electricity grid, plus installation of around 4,900 sensors to collect network performance data.
Network Digital Twin® technologies, which include more than 170 initiatives and new collaborations and 24 partners, will allow remote access in real time, im- proving operation of the Enel network and hence the service quality supplied to customers in the region.
> Additive manufacturing by means of 3D printing –
Additive manufacturing of mechanical components can benefit from the new Direct Energy Machines Addi- tive printer, which was installed this year in the Santa. 
Bárbara facility. Together with laser scanners and ma- terials testing laboratories, the 3D printer allows Enel


131. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Innovation and digitalization. 
Our pillars ESG backbones to repair valuable components subject to wear (turbine blades, burner components) and redesign and make in- novative components with complex geometries and in special materials.
> Energy Storage – The use of storage systems produc- es an improvement in levels of reliability and an increase in network quality indicators. Together with traditional generation, energy storage guarantees balancing of the network and stability of system loads on a country-wide level. The use of batteries is of critical importance in supporting microgrids, especially for the network ser- vice on minor islands.
> Green hydrogen – A community was set up in 2019 to study applications linked to the production of hydrogen by means of electrolysis processes powered by electric- ity from renewable sources.
Intellectual property: innovation driver. 
Intellectual property is the essential driver of innovation and. 
Enel has launched a specific project for its measurement and assessment, also in order to share the impacts and gen- erate value among the various stakeholders.
For this purpose, in liaison with a research group guided by. 
Roma Tre University and composed of researchers from several academic institutions, the project involves the var- ious Business Lines and is aimed at identifying and organis- ing intellectual property, construed as the portfolio of intan- gible assets created by human ingenuity (such as patents or software). A digital platform for monitoring and evalua- tion has also been launched, making it possible to map the patents held by the Group for the first time and to do the groundwork needed to gain insights and perform actions of a strategic and organisational nature in the future.
At the end of 2019, the Group held a total of 826 patents for industrial inventions, subject to specific normative pro- tection, mainly concerning the Global Infrastructure & Net- works (506 patents), Enel X (188 patents) and Global Power. 
Generation (132 patents) Business Lines. 83% of the pat- ents have already completed the registration procedure, while the remaining 17% is awaiting the result of the patent office examination phase. On a geographical basis, the pat- ents owned by the Group are distributed across 57 different countries, mainly in Italy (652), then in the US (137), Brazil (19), Spain (9) and Colombia (9).
In the framework of the Global Infrastructure & Networks. 
Business Line, the patents portfolio is mainly related to smart metering systems and other technologies, resulting from a multi-annual activity of research and development aimed primarily at extending the functions and information acces- sible to customers, at simplifying the remote management of devices, optimising processes of communication with the central systems, and preventing any tamper attempts.
The most significant patents of the Enel X Business Line include smart charging technologies for charging points that take into consideration system requirements, customer be- haviour, and environmental factors (patent granted in the. 
US) and optimisation mechanisms for B2B customer energy systems which, through the management of electricity con- sumption, help to identify the ideal balance point between economic sustainability and system efficiency (patent grant- ed in the US and pending in Canada, Australia and South. 
Korea).
The Global Power Generation Business Line has developed patents related in particular to decarbonization of the energy mix and digitalization. Patents of special significance include, for example: patent for hydroelectric plant application that allows hydraulic turbine performance optimisation (patent granted in Italy and Spain and pending in Brazil), patent for thermoelectric plants that makes it possible to detect the buckets closed condition automatically, thus increasing the efficiency and safety of solids loading and unloading pro- cesses (patent granted in Italy and pending in France and. 
Germany), and, for photovoltaic plants, a patent for improved efficiency of solar cells (patent granted in Italy, with proce- dures currently under way for extension to France, Germany and Spain and, beyond the EU, to the US, Japan and China).


132 Sustainability Report 2019. 
The digital transformation. 
Transformation of the energy sector is leading to the devel- opment of new sustainable business models, thanks also to the growing digitalization of services and infrastructure.
Specifically, data management plays a key role in supporting the decisional process with the development and application of advanced analytics to engender new synergies. Robot- ics, artificial intelligence, cyber security, Big Data and cloud computing are among the key elements in which Enel is in- vesting, thus confirming that digitalization is among the core focuses of the 2020-2022 Strategic Plan aimed at supporting business development. In this context, the digital strategy is being oriented towards maximizing margins and reducing operating costs to facilitate the energy transition process.
The Group is committed to protecting its critical infrastruc-
People. 
Asset. 
Customer. 
Platform. 
CLOUD. 
Agile. 
Data Driven Cyber Security


133. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Innovation and digitalization. 
Our pillars ESG backbones ture, to disseminating a culture of cyber security in line with. 
SDGs 9 and 11, to virtualization of the asset management operating activities, and to promoting the use of videocom- munication systems, in accordance with SDG 12.
Digital transformation in Enel is guided by the “Global Dig- ital Solutions” unit which, working together with all the. 
Holding’s Business Lines and Functions, guides strategic choices, defines the paths of development and guarantees their implementation. The Enel operating models call for an agile working approach to anticipate market demand, with constant attention paid to the satisfaction of internal and ex- ternal customers, to guarantee innovation and flexibility and the Company’s ability to adapt and react to change rapid- ly. The “Global Customer Digital Hub” was created in 2019 starting from customer-focused activities managed by Coun- try/regional units, in order to maximize the digital impact and promote synergies generated by the integration of the competences of the IT platforms and teams from different countries. This has guaranteed consistency and uniformity among projects and initiatives in different countries, efficien- cy of costs through centralised sourcing, and faster time-to- market. In addition, the “Enel X Digital Hub” Function has been reorganised, with the introduction of a Digital Factory for each Product Line to manage design, development and adoption of the associated digital solutions.
To support the business over the next three years specif- ic investments are planned to develop the platform busi- ness model, which will primarily involve the three com- pany areas of Global Infrastructure and Networks, Retail, and Enel X. For Infrastructure and Networks the global platform will make it possible to standardise operations and maintenance, customer management processes, and allocation of resources and systems. For Retail, a global platform will be constructed to allow standardisation of processes and the back-end and front-end systems, such as the development of global products, thus constructing the operating model around products and services rather than around local markets. Finally, Enel X is a business platform by design model, in which innovative products and services are developed and supplied to customers all over the world. This constitutes an enormous opportunity to create new markets.


134 Sustainability Report 2019. 
People: the decarbonization contribution of shared IT services. 
Machine learning. 
Machine learning – Digitalization and development of innovative tools based on machine learning technologies will make it possible to carry out predictive analysis for maintenance of electricity distribution and generation plant com- ponents, identifying faults early and taking action before the occurrence of breakdowns of major components, which would reduce the availability of the plants concerned. Reducing the risk of malfunctions has a significant impact not only in economic terms, but also in relation to the environment and personal safety. Enel is adopting digital technology such as Big Data, machine learning and automation on its power network in order to develop intelligent infrastructure that reduces power outages and energy losses and manages distributed generation assets proactively. Enel has leveraged machine learning solutions to boost plant efficiency in terms of heat rate and combustion optimisation. Enel is investing in digital assets in the burgeoning renewable generation sector both for Engineering & Construction and for Operations & Maintenance, reducing the time-to-market of new plants (and hence anticipating the benefits of CO2-free generation) and increasing their generation output. For example, artificial intelligence is used to predict the power generated and optimise maintenance programmes. Another aspect worth considering is that the effects of digitalization on the end use of energy are doubled. Smart meters provide consumers with full awareness of their energy consumption, while the new Enel X subCo provides customers with innovative energy services for efficiency, in addition to “smart” tech- nological systems. This is reflected in major savings of energy consumption and CO2 emissions.
Cloud. 
In 2019 the cloud was an essential strategic enabler for Enel, allowing the use of infrastructure and application IT re- sources when required since, by exploiting the access possibilities made available by the network in full, it allows the reduction of wastage deriving from the consumption of unused resources. The proportion of Enel applications on cloud in 2019 reached 100%. The AWS (Amazon Web Services) cloud used by Enel calls for the use of around 16% of the energy required by conventional on premise infrastructure on average, allowing an average reduction of 88% in CO2 emissions, and it is hosted on green data processing centres 50% of whose energy requirements are obtained from renewable sources.
Alongside technological progress and the development of new business opportunities, the central topic remains that of Enel’s people and their needs. In this regard, the Compa- ny is continuing to pursue the internal digital transformation process aimed at improving the digital skills of its people.
In light of this goal, Enel is committed to rethinking its cor- porate processes, improving existing services and exploit- ing the new opportunities offered by digital technology to the full. For example, the “e-API Digital Ecosystem” was adopted in the Group in 2019, to make data related to gen- eration, e-mobility, customers, people, etc. available to all in the various countries, guaranteeing a common platform on which to share data among the different company areas.
For more information, refer to the chapter “Our people and their value”.


135. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Innovation and digitalization. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
Video communication. 
Number of meetings 2017 40,758 49,219 244,030 2018 2019 t CO2 avoided 2017 32,783 48,984 242,160 2018 2019. 
Compared to last year in which the measures intended for the video communication service were related exclusively to the use of the “Blue Jeans” cloud platform, in 2019, through the completion of the “Unified Communication & Collaboration” project, the Global Digital Solutions unit has introduced a new digital platform that has made it possible to enhance, integrate and extend digital services and tools. In 2019, these actions therefore allowed the greater diffusion of the use of video communication solutions, contributing to the increase in savings on travel and transfers and to the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions.
Printing service. 
Millions of pages 2017 180 157 136 2018 2019 t CO2 produced 2017 19.0 15.7 12.5 2018 2019. 
A printing service has been operating in all Enel offices for some time now. In addition to using new-generation printers, designed for more environmentally friendly use, the service was conceived on an advanced business model that has allowed Enel to evolve from the concept of product to that of service. The unique aspects of this service, together with a more rational use of printed documents and digitalization, have led to a reduction in paper consumption over the years and consequently a lower impact on the environment. In particular, based on the number of printed pages and the printers’ technical specifications, the quantity of CO2 associated with the electricity consumption of printers while printing is calculated by applying each country’s emission coefficient (data source: Enerdata), which takes into account the specific mix of energy sources present1.
1 Extract from Enerdata, June 4, 2019. It considers data from the following countries: Italy, Spain, Russia, Romania, Brazil, Chile, Peru, Colombia.


136 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Cyber security. 
Digitalization opens new opportunities but also throws down new challenges in the security field. In the electrical sector in particular, service continuity is of critical importance, mak- ing it essential to be able to withstand cyber attacks. Indeed, a large-scale power outage could impact private citizens, businesses, institutions and essential services. Enel has adopted a systemic model that makes it possible to increase prevention and the ability to respond to possible attacks for all of its assets.
Policies and management model. 
In September 2016, the “Cyber Security” unit, headed by the Group Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), was set up within the Global Digital, reporting directly to the Chief. 
Information Officer (CIO). The unit is engaged in guaran- teeing the operation, management, and control of cyber se- curity issues, defining strategies, policies and guidelines in compliance with national and international legislation, and monitoring Group cyber security by means of process-based and technical checks.
The unit operates in synergy with the Business Lines and with the technical units responsible for design and manage- ment of the systems, thanks to the “Cyber Security Risk. 
Managers” and “Cyber Security Response Managers”. The. 
CISO and Cyber Security Risk Managers also set up the “Cyber Risk Working Committee” with the aim of evaluat- ing IT risks horizontally in order to consolidate the approach to risk treatment and achieve the Group’s risk posture. The “Cyber Security Risks Committee”, chaired by Enel’s. 
Chief Executive Officer and composed of his main front lines, approves the cyber security strategy and periodically checks the progress of its implementation. Each Group area department participates actively in implementing the cyber security strategy by means of an integrated operating plan. 
PC Power Management - Italy. 
Millions of hours downtime 2017 36 38 32 2018 2019 t CO2 produced 2017 439.8 330.4 322.1 2018 2019. 
In 2019, electricity consumption outside normal working hours2 continued to be monitored. This is related to the IT workstations (desktops, laptops, monitors) of Enel people working in Italy. This measurement is possible thanks to a Microsoft3 feature available on the workstations, which made it possible to identify when they were turned on and not used. Following the analysis, specific awareness actions were defined aimed at mitigating electricity consumption. While showing an increase in hours of inactivity, the new IT tools made available to Enel people have enabled a reduction in emissions.
[data source: Blue Jeans] 2 Monday-Friday (from 7pm to 7am); Saturday and Sunday. The monitoring excluded servers and personal computers that must always remain on (for example, GESI application, Enel Points, Power Exchange, etc.). Specifically, the indicator represents the amount of CO2 associated with the electricity consumption of desktops, laptops and monitors, to which the average CO2 emission value is then applied per unit of electricity produced (gCO2/kWh) relative to the mix of sources in Italy. 3 System Center Configuration Manager.


137. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Innovation and digitalization. 
Our pillars ESG backbones aligned with the Group’s objectives. The cyber security strat- egy and initiatives are recurring topics that are subject to the. 
Group’s principal executive and control bodies (e.g. “Board of Directors”, “Control and Risks Committee”, “Supervisory. 
Bodies”, etc.).
In 2017 the Company also set up a specific “Cyber Security. 
Framework” policy, which orients principles, organisation and operating processes for a global strategy of analysis, prevention and management of the risks and effects of cy- ber attacks. This framework is based on a “systemic” vision that integrates traditional Information Technology sector (IT) with the Operational Technology sector (OT), connected to the world of industry and the Internet of Things (IoT). In the context of the creation of this framework, 2017 saw the definition also of the new Cyber Security Risk Management methodology applicable to all IT, OT and IoT environments, which specifies all the necessary phases required to perform a risk analysis and define the associated mitigation plan, in line with the stated cyber security objectives. Enel has also created a “Cyber Emergency Readiness Team” (CERT) for proactive management and response to cyber incidents while collaborating and exchanging information within a net- work of accredited international partners. The existing ac- creditation agreements with the institutional CERTs in the countries in which Enel operates were upgraded in 2019.
Following signing of the agreement with the US national. 
CERT, the number of accreditations has now reached 9: Ro- mania, Italy, Chile, Argentina, Peru, Colombia, Brazil, Spain and the US. Also in 2019 the collaboration proceeds with the Trusted Introducer Service, which includes more than 380 CERTs in over 60 countries, and with “FIRST” (Forum of Incident Response and Security Teams), the largest and most wide ranging community in the sector, with over 510 members in more than 90 countries. Finally, the Enel CERT. 
Global Control room in Turin was upgraded in 2019: another step forward in the consolidation and reinforcement of the. 
Group’s cyber security strategy.
Cyber security incident management. 
Every day, CERT collects more than 2 billion events from more than 3,700 data sources related to the corporate assets, correlating them and producing around one hundred “inci- dents” (cases requiring treatment). The incidents are classi- fied in accordance with a specific evaluation matrix (Enel Cy- ber Impact Matrix) on a scale from 0 to 4 that considers both the level of their impact and the level of the existing tools protecting company assets. The majority of incidents identi- fied had no significant impact on Group systems and were automatically or semi-automatically blocked and/or managed by existing company defences (level 0/1). Incidents classified at levels 2/3/4 potentially have an impact on the Group and they are managed by the CERT analysts, bringing in the ap- propriate units in question in accordance with processes and actors that are predetermined during the monitoring service set-up phase. In 2019 CERT responded to 94 level “2” cyber security incidents and 10 level “3” incidents. In all cases detected, all the procedures provided were activated and no significant damage ensued in respect of company assets. No level “4” cyber security incidents were recorded.
If a cyber security incident were to involve a possible data violation, the appropriate and necessary actions would be un- dertaken immediately, in line with the specific Group policy on “Personal Data Management”. If a crisis situation should arise such that threatens business continuity of the Company, and/or the assets, reputation, and/or profitability of the Enel. 
Group, the appropriate and necessary actions would be un- dertaken immediately, in line with the specific Group policy concerning “Critical Events Management”.
CERT allowed Enel to block the following daily threats in 2019: > approximately 2 million inbound malicious or spam emails; > approximately 300 viruses; > approximately 400 thousand at risk connections in outbound emails; > approximately 120 attacks on institutional portals.
The number of connections to dangerous sites in 2019 fell thanks to the extension of the technical countermeasures adopted and the increase in the level of protection of Inter- net navigation, in relation to the extension of the perimeter of countries covered.
Moreover, by means of Threat Intelligence services, in 2019. 
Enel detected more than 1,300 Internet domains engaged in illicit use of the trade mark for the probable purpose of perpetrating fraud against customers, and reported them to the competent authorities.
Furthermore, more than 800 safety checks were carried out in the sphere of IT and OT, this number representing an in- crease of 60% versus the checks carried out in 2018.
Finally, since complete migration to the IaaS cloud was ac-


138 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Training and information. 
The Company pressed ahead with its commitment to dis- seminating the “cyber security culture” in 2019, staging 16 cyber security knowledge sharing events.
After the first plan launched at the end of 2015, the Cy- ber Security Awareness Program has now become a constant and ongoing initiative at Group level, aimed at creating a culture of cyber security to increase awareness of threats and attacks exploiting the human vector.
In this context, the Company proceeded with the “Hack- ers love data. Save it.” cyber security awareness cam- paign started in 2017 and addressed to everyone in the. 
Group; in the second half of 2019 two waves were ded- icated to “Spear Phishing” and “Social Engineering” at- tack methods.
Furthermore, 16 cyber security knowledge sharing events were organised at Group level in 2019 and also a con- tinuous and widespread information activity was carried out concerning the main cyber threats (as occurred, for example, in May 2019 after one of the world’s main in- stant messaging systems was hacked), by means of ap- propriate communications to all Group employees, carried out primarily via the intranet. The Group intranet not only disseminates news concerning cyber security matters rapidly, but also provides access to all the relevant organ- isational documents and technical guidelines.
complished in 2019 for the entire perimeter of Enel applica- tions, the number of “Internet web applications protect- ed by means of advanced cyber security solutions” has now reached 100%.
Main collaborations with external bodies and agencies. 
In line with SDGs 9 and 17, Enel numbers activities in the area of digitalization and innovation within activities for the promotion of global partnerships with external bodies and authorities, including private organisations, institutions, academies and universities. In line with the Open Power approach, this method makes it possible to share best prac- tices, develop channels for sharing information and create new standards and regulations in which Enel makes its ex- perience available to increase the security of the ecosystem.
Active participations proceeded in 2019 with several work groups for the definition of cyber security regulations and standards in the electricity industry, notably in the context of the “International Electrotechnical Commission TC57/
WG15 - Data and Communication Security” and the “IEC. 
Technical Committee 57”.
There were also several collaborations with institutional partners and participations in high-profile national and inter- national symposia in 2019, with the aim of maintaining an active role in the industry’s international community, sharing the Enel cyber security model and the approach employed.
In this context, Enel took part as a founder member in “The. 
National Observatory for Cyber Security, Resilience and. 
Business Continuity of Electrical Grids”, a group of experts that acts as a focal point for innovation and research initia- tives on critical electrical infrastructure.
Enel takes part in the World Economic Forum work groups and, in 2019, contributed to drafting the paper entitled “Cy- ber Resilience in the Electricity Ecosystem: Principles and. 
Guidance for Boards”, which aims to provide the Boards of. 
Directors of companies in the electricity sector with a series of general and cross-platform principles for governance in re- lation to cyber resilience of the electricity sector ecosystem.
Furthermore, the Group played an active role in the Conseil de Cooperation Economique task force for cyber security in the energy sector, in order to provide information and rec- ommendations concerning cyber security, of use for Euro- pean Commission initiatives.


139. 
Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Innovation and digitalization. 
Our pillars ESG backbones. 
Projects. 
All cyber security projects, programmes and initiatives are designed to avoid, mitigate or remediate IT security risks for the entire Enel Group. Consequently, all cyber security activities – which are managed with a risk-based approach following the principle of security by design – give rise to a continuous due diligence process that also includes self-as- surance activities.
The most significant projects include “Cyber Security Awareness Solution”, launched in 2019 with the aim of identi- fying and adopting a platform that allows the execution of awareness campaigns that are pervasive, adaptive and active, with adequately calibrated informative contents based on the level of exposure of individuals to cyber threats. The project is aimed at adopting a solution capable of delivering the above contents to all Enel Group people and to various appropriately identified third parties within 2020.


ESG BACKBONES 2.


142 Sustainability Report 2019. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2021 TARGETS 2019 RESULTS CATEGORIES. 
Extra Checking on Site (ECoS) 150 ECoS in 2021 230 ECoS carried out Safety management. 
Supply chain management. 
Global awareness programmes about prevention and health promotion 18 programmes in 2021 16 programmes carried out Training. 
Reduction of injury frequency rates compared to prior years (LTIFR)
LTIFR = 0.15 (-18.2% with respect to last year)1. 
Safety management. 
Strengthening of horizontal initiatives on Business Lines and/or Countries aimed at growing the culture, awareness and commitment of employees and contractors with respect to health and safety issues > SHE Project 2.0192 > Staging of Vendor Days3 and Country Committees4. 
Training. 
Improvement of the Operating assets control system in order to optimise directional strategies, methods of execution, analysis of results and the consequent improvement activities > Standardised and globally unified checklist prepared > Criteria for selection of companies to be checked, based on safety performance and hours worked, defined within Global Infrastructure and Networks > Adoption of IT tools for the execution, collection and analysis of checks (Damasco app)
Safety management. 
Safety policies 2019 2021 Occupational health and safety Plan. 
Occupational health and safety 3
3 3
3 3
102-15


143 Occupational health and safety. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix 1 This value derives from the calculation performed through non-rounded decimal values and indicates the LTFIR combined for Enel people and contractors. 2 SHE 2.019 is the continuation of the SHE 365 project launched in 2018, which involves both Enel people and suppliers in initiatives concerning safety, health and the environment. 3 The Vendor Days are designed to involve vendors of all the Business lines in relation to the objectives and challenges of Enel, especially in the context of health and safety. 4 Country Committees are periodic meetings aimed at facilitating synergy between the Business Lines and improving Country performance from the perspective of health and safety. 5 Contractor H&S Assessment and H&S Support are ratings concerning the performance of Enel contractors in consideration of Health and Safety legislation.
2020 2022 Occupational health and safety Plan. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2022 TARGETS CATEGORIES. 
Extra Checking on Site (ECoS) 150 ECoS in 2022 Safety management. 
Supply chain management. 
Contractor H&S Assessment and H&S support5 150 assessments in 2022 Safety management. 
Supply chain management. 
Reduction of injury frequency rates compared to prior years (LTIFR) Safety management. 
Strengthening of horizontal initiatives on Business Lines and/or Countries aimed at growing the culture, awareness and commitment of employees and contractors with respect to health and safety issues. 
Training. 
Improvement of the operating assets control system in order to optimise directional strategies, methods of execution, results analysis and the consequent improvement activities. 
Safety management. 
Safety policies 3
3 3
3 3


144 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Enel considers the people’s health, safety and psychological and physical well-being the most precious asset to be protected at all times of life, at work, at home and during leisure time, and is committed to developing and disseminating a robust safety culture throughout the entire perimeter of the Company in order to guaran- tee a workplace that is free from health and safety hazards. Enel SpA people are responsible for their own health and safety and for the health and safety of the people with whom they interact and, as specified in Enel Group’s “Stop Work Poli- cy”, must promptly draw attention to and/or stop any at-risk situations or unsafe be- haviours. The constant commitment of all, integration of safety in processes and in training activities, disclosure and analysis of near miss accidents, rigorous selection and management of contractor companies, quality controls, sharing of experience within the Group and benchmarking with the best international operators are the foundational elements of Enel’s safety culture.
The commitment of top management to disseminating these elements is for- malised in the “Statement of Commitment to Health and Safety”, signed by the. 
Chief Executive Officer, which is based on the following key principles: > compliance with legislation, adoption of the best standards and sharing of ex- perience; > creation, implementation and continual improvement of the Occupational. 
Health & Safety Management System in compliance with international stan- dard ISO 45001; > reduction of injuries, occupational diseases and other accidental events through the implementation of suitable preventive measures and checking of their ade- quacy and effectiveness; > assessment of all health and safety risks and adoption of a systematic approach to eliminate them at source if possible, or to minimise them; > promotion of informative initiatives to disseminate and consolidate a culture of good health, safety and organisational well-being; > adoption of working methods inspired by quality and their dissemination by means of incisive and effective training that aims to create a lasting connection between technical aspects and safety aspects; > direct commitment of the persons in charge aimed at strengthening a robust culture of leadership in relation to safety; > adoption of safe and responsible conduct throughout all levels of the organisa- tion; > design of workplaces and supply of suitable equipment and tools for the execu-
Occupational health and safety 0.73 Combined injuries Frequency Rate (FR) for Enel people and contractors, with a reduction of about 18% compared to 2018 0.15 Combined LTIFR for Enel people and contractors, with a reduction of about 18% compared to 2018 230 Extra Checking on Site (ECoS)
SHE 2.019 continuation of the 2018 SHE 365 project on safety, health and the environment 403-7 403-9 416-1 DMA EU (former EU21) DMA EU (former EU16) 102-15 103-2 103-3 403-1 403-2 403-3 403-4 403-5 403-6. 
EU18. 
Sustainability Report At a Glance Sound governance Performance indicators. 
Annual Report


145 Occupational health and safety. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix tion of operating activities, guaranteeing optimal condi- tions of good health, safety, comfort and well-being; > rigorous selection and management of contractors and vendors, promoting their involvement in safety perfor- mance continual improvement programmes; > constant attention towards communities and towards all those who work with or come into contact with the. 
Group’s activities by sharing a culture of health and safe- ty protection; > annual definition of specific and measurable goals and continual monitoring to check their effective implemen- tation through the involvement of top management.
In January 2019 Enel updated its Health & Safety Policy in compliance with the principles set down in the Statement of. 
Commitment to Health and Safety and in the Code of Ethics.
In pursuit of the Policy, each of the Group’s Business Lines is equipped with its own Occupational Health & Safety Man- agement System in compliance with international standard. 
ISO 45001, based on identification of hazards, qualitative and quantitative risk assessment, planning and implemen- tation of preventive and protective measures, verification of the effectiveness of preventive and protective measures, and on any corrective actions to be undertaken.
The Management System involves both Enel people and the personnel of contractors working on Enel’s plants/sites. Each system that involves both Enel people and the personnel of contractors working on Enel’s plants and sites includes the following shared aspects: > prior evaluation, elimination and/or reduction of risks through application of the latest technical know-how; > identification of the necessary preventive measures and the associated implementation programme; > adoption of residual risk mitigation measures, awarding priority to collective rather than personal solutions; > active, responsible, and integrated intervention of all parties concerned with safety, involving workers and/ or workers’ representatives, starting from the identifi- cation of risk situations up to the choice of solutions to prevent and/or reduce them; > appointment of a medical officer, when required, and setting up health surveillance for workers responsible for specific high-risk processes; > preparation of a programme of information and training of workers in order to increase awareness when dealing with situations of risk; > regular upkeep and cleaning of workplaces.
From an organisational perspective, the Holding Health,
Safety, Environment and Quality unit (HSEQ) assumes the roles of supervision, guidance and coordination, promoting the dissemination and sharing of best practices within the. 
Group and external health and safety benchmarking with top international players in order to identify improvement oppor- tunities and ensure constant commitment in the area of risk reduction. Alongside the Holding Function, the Global Busi- ness Lines HSEQ structures orient and support the business in relation to health and safety issues, define improvement plans and monitor their execution.
In confirmation of the strategy implemented and the safety policies put in place by Enel, several initiatives were carried out in 2019, aimed mainly at strengthening horizontal activi- ties across Business Lines and/or Countries. “Country Com- mittees” have been set up with the goal of favouring syner- gies between the Business Lines operating in the Country in order to improve safety performance. Committee meetings are held periodically, usually once a month, and chaired by the Country Manager. The committees are attended by all the managers of the Country Business Lines and the asso- ciated HSEQ managers plus the heads of the People and. 
Organization, Procurement and Legal Functions. The Safety. 
KPIs are analysed during the meetings, sharing also best practices and information concerning events of particular sig- nificance in terms of safety related aspects; moreover, the states of completion of projects shared by multiple Business. 
Lines and launched by the committee in question are coor- dinated and analysed. The committees are currently active in all countries in South America, in the USA, Italy, Spain and. 
Russia.


146 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Safety rates. 
The injuries frequency rate (FR) combined for Enel people and contractors in 2019 confirmed the downward trend already re- corded in prior years, with a total of 0.73 injuries per million hours worked, a figure that is 18.2% lower than that of 2018.
In detail, the FR of Enel people decreased, totalling 0.90 in- juries per one million hours worked (-5% versus 2018), and also that of contractor personnel, totalling 0.65 injuries per one million hours worked (-25% versus 2018), thus confirm- ing the effectiveness of the strategies adopted and of the safety policies implemented in the Group.
In 2019 there was 1 fatality involving an employee of the. 
Enel Group (Spain) and 6 fatalities involving contractors (2 in. 
Brazil, 2 in Chile, 1 in Italy and 1 in Romania ). The causes are mainly of mechanical type.
In 2019 there were 3 High Consequence injuries involving Enel. 
Group employees (2 in Italy and 1 in Russia) and 16 involving contractors (5 in Italy, 2 in Spain, 2 in Peru, 2 in Mexico, 1 in. 
USA, 3 in Brazil and 1 in Argentina ), mainly of mechanical type.
Enel has a specific injuries management policy (Policy 106 “Classification, communication, analysis and reporting of incidents”) that defines roles and methods employed to guarantee prompt communication of incidents, ensuring the related causes analysis process, definition of improvement 1 This rate is calculated by establishing the ratio between the number of injuries (all injuries, also those with 3 days of absence or less) and hours worked/1,000,000. 2 Sum of: injuries that resulted in more than 6 months’ absence from work as at December 31, 2019; injuries that are still open and considered severe (initial prognosis > 30 days) as at December 31, 2019; injuries categorised as “Life Changing Accidents” (LCAs), regardless of the resulting days of absence from work. 3 The Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate is calculated by relating the number of injuries (all accident events, also those with 3 days of absence or less) with hours worked * 200 thousand. 4 Considering all areas in which the Group operates and the activities managed, including companies consolidated using the equity method and companies for which the BSO (Build, Sell and Operate) mechanism has been applied, the total number of fatalities is 8.
plans, and monitoring of the associated actions depending on the event type.
The criteria prescribed by Policy 106 are applicable not only to injuries of high industrial significance but also to minor events, including those not involving personal injuries (near misses). Therefore, all fatalities or severe injuries (or events that could have potentially caused a fatal or severe injury) involving Enel people or the personnel of contractor compa- nies are analysed by a group of experts. The improvement actions identified are constantly monitored and followed until the time of completion. If the event analysis reveals serious safety breaches by contractor companies, suitable provisions are adopted (contract termination, suspension of qualification, etc.).
In addition, the Extra Checking on Site (ECoS) activity pro- ceeded in 2019 with 230 ECoS carried out, in line with the 150 planned. The purpose of the ECoS is to assess adequacy of the organisation and processes implemented in a specif- ic operational area. These checks are carried out by expert. 
HSEQ personnel external to the operating units affected by the investigation, assisted by technical profiles specific to the business, and they make it possible to define adequately monitored corrective actions for preventive purposes.
Injuries frequency rate-FR1 (i) Injuries frequency rate-FR1 (i) Fatalities (no.)
High Consequence injuries 2 (no.) LTIFR3 (i)
Fatalities (no.)
High Consequence injuries 2 (no.) LTIFR3 (i)
Enel people. 
Indici sulla safety 2019 1.199 2019 2
2018 0.943 2017 0.899 2019 0.24 2018 0.19 2017 0.18 2018 2017 1
1 5
2019 2018 2017 3. 
Contractors 2019 0.969 2018 0.873 2017 0.653 2019 11 2018 2017 6
2019 2018 0.17 2017 0.13 12 13 2019 2018 2017 16 1 7 4 0.19


147 Occupational health and safety. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Safety in contract processes. 
Safety is integrated in tender processes and the performance of companies is monitored both on a preliminary level, by means of the qualification system, and during contract exe- cution through a large number of control processes and tools such as the Supplier Performance Management tool (SPM).
A specific “HSE Terms” document has been prepared and attached to all contracts since March 2019; the document in question must be signed by contractors when the works are awarded. The document, which is the same throughout the entire Group, defines the obligations in relation to health, safety and environmental aspects that the contractor must respect, placing the same obligation on its subcontractors.
Any violation of the contractual conditions in question will produce specific penalties up to termination of the contract and/or suspension of qualification.
Significant impetus has also been given during the year to “Safety Supplier Assessments”, which consist in the execution of specific checks concerning safety issues, conducted in the vendor’s headquarters and on its job sites. The assessments are carried out during the qualification phase for each new ven- dor, or in cases in which criticalities emerge (severe or fatal inju- ries) or low SMP rating scores. 746 assessments were carried out in 2019 in the various countries and Business Lines.
One area of action, already started in 2018 but greatly de- veloped in 2019, concerns the creation of a “Safety Partner- ship” with vendors having the following basic stages: > definition of a safety rating to measure companies’ management and operational performance. The perfor- mance parameters considered include the Contractors. 
Safety Index (CSI), an indicator based not only on detec- tion of non-conformity in the field and ranking of the re- lated severity, but also on the number and seriousness of accidents. This indicator makes it possible to detect faint signals and operational criticalities of contractors so prevention can be selectively focused on the most crit- ical companies in order to take increasingly responsive actions to prevent accidents before they happen; > the adoption of targeted actions with personalised ac- companiment plans for companies in order to reach the required standards.
In critical cases, Enel creates hybrid work teams with the com- panies to carry out joint analysis of gaps to be filled, define tan- gible actions to raise safety standards, and then track the imple- mentation phase and effectiveness of the measures adopted.
Infrastructure safety and technological innovation. 
Enel views technological innovation as a valid tool capable of improving a large number of processes from the H&S per- spective. Several innovation projects on safety proceeded and various new projects were launched in 2019 in order to improve processes, starting from personnel training, con- tinuing with the implementation of preventive and protec- tive measures, up to the execution and analysis of corrective checks.
Personal voltage detectors, i.e. portable devices designed to identify electrical voltage on low- and medium-voltage power lines located at operationally significant distances from the worker but not necessarily involved in the activity in progress, have been adopted in the Infrastructure and Net- works area. Promoted initiatives include an app that uses uploaded confirmation photos to guarantee that all activities calling for preparatory electrical disconnection of live parts have been carried out in full compliance with the globally adopted rules to ensure complete safety.
2019 also saw the experimentation of the sober-eye service, which consists in monitoring the physical condition of work- ers – in real time and by means of an app – by analysing the pupil and its response to light stimuli (specifically, by record- ing changes in the pupillary light reflex).


148 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Development of safety culture: training and information. 
Health 403-3. 
The Enel Group has defined a structured health management system based on preventive measures, to develop a corpo- rate culture oriented towards the promotion of mental-physi- cal health, organisational well-being and balance between the professional and personal spheres. In this context, the Group carries out global and local awareness raising campaigns to promote healthy lifestyles, sponsors screening programmes aimed at preventing the onset of illnesses and guarantees the availability of medical services. In particular, a policy is provided for the prevention of local diseases and for support in the event of diseases and accidents in other countries; in addition, a smartphone app has been introduced with travel information, vaccination guidelines, and a new global insur- ance policy has been taken out to cover all workers who travel internationally. In relation to the injuries phenomenon, apart from implementing plans designed to reduce the frequency to zero, it is planned to adopt a psychological support pro- gramme for employees who have suffered serious injuries, together with their families, in order to assist them from the time of the event up to the return to normality.
Constant monitoring of epidemiological and health trends is carried out within the perimeter of the Enel Group, with the aim of implementing plans composed of preventive meas- ures and measures to protect the health of employees and anyone working for the Group, on both the local and global levels.
Moreover, the Enel Group implements a systematic and continuous process for identifying and evaluating correlated work stress risks, in compliance with the “Stress at Work. 
Prevention and Well-being at Work Promotion” Policy. This allows prevention, identification and management of stress in work situations that can affect individuals and more ex- tensive areas of the organisation, supplying also a series of indications aimed at promoting a culture of organisational well-being.
Finally, the Group provides its people with specific conven- tions that provide ready access to: medical and healthcare services, assistance actions for persons with disabilities or in emergency situations, and specific preventive medicine initiatives.
EU18. 
Several health and safety communication campaigns were carried out in the year concerning areas of specific attention for the Company, based both on the publication of informa- tion on the company intranet, and on specific services on. 
Enel TV and Enel Radio. Enel people received approximately 692 thousand training hours overall in 2019, in addition to in- formation and training activities on safety, with the purpose of increasing the know-how and specific skills of workers throughout the Group.
On the global level, the Company proceeded with its com- mitment to the SHE 365 project, launched in 2018, which involved both Group people and vendors in initiatives con- cerning Safety, Health and the Environment. In 2019 this commitment was reinforced with SHE 2.019, which places the topic of “Leadership on safety” at the centre and is de- veloped in three main directions: > the Commitment chain, to channel actions with the aim of preventing fatalities and serious accidents, with par- ticular attention paid to life-changing injuries; > Inter BLs integration, that transforms the efforts of the. 
Countries and Regions into common factors of preven- tive actions, increasing the synergy of the actions of in- dividual Business Lines; > the Contractors’ engagement, to improve the safety


149 Occupational health and safety. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix 100% of personnel of contractors destined to work for Enel who have received training and information on health and safety from their employer. 
About 861thousand hours of training and information addressed to personnel of contractors1 1 The value includes also training and information courses supplied by Enel people to allow contractors to access the Group’s job sites and/or facilities.
standards of companies working with Enel.
Specific actions have been carried out in the framework of the project, including the “SHE 2.019 leadership program”, which led to the selection and training of a community of safety influencers to facilitate the dissemination of safety values throughout all organisational areas, and “Inspector 2.0”, aimed at developing the technical and relational skills of inspectors and supervisors in the field, to strengthen coach- ing actions towards internal people and companies that work with Enel.
Communications on the global level in relation to health and safety were focused on topics concerning personal health and the most common pathologies.
Safety of communities and third parties 416-1 EU 25 103-2 103-3. 
Enel’s installed plants are built in compliance with legislative prescriptions and the rules of best technical practice. Plants, machines and work equipment are subject to systematic and periodic checks and maintenance activities to guarantee correct operation in compliance with regulations and in ac- cordance with the adoption of the best standards.
In order to guarantee health and safety of the community and reduce the impact of the typical activities of the com- pany’s generation process on the external environment, the. 
Company carries out monitoring campaigns such as mea- surement of the electromagnetic fields of power networks, noise levels, vibration and dust created by the electrical machines of power plants and distribution and transformer substations. Also the following environmentally significant factors are monitored: atmospheric emissions and air quali- ty, effluent discharge into surface waters, water quality, pro- duction, reuse and disposal of wastes, soil quality, biodiver- sity impacts.
Considerable attention has been devoted to preventing harmful events involving members of the public who acci- dentally come into contact with electricity networks due to activities such as job sites near transmission lines or sports and leisure pursuits (fishing, flying kites, etc.). A large num- ber of awareness campaigns have been conducted, ad- dressed both to the general public and to specific categories (construction companies, sports associations, etc.).


150 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Nuclear policy. 
In the context of its operations in the field of nuclear tech- nologies, Enel has made a public commitment, in the role of shareholder, to guarantee that a clear nuclear safety policy is adopted in its atomic energy plants and that the plants are managed in accordance with criteria capable of assuring the absolute priority of safety and protection of workers, the community and the environment. Further details are avail- able on the Enel website (https://www.enel.com/investors/ sustainability-performance/enel-and-nuclear).
Emergencies management. 
DMA EU (former EU21)
Enel has a common crisis and critical events management system across the various countries in which the Group is present. This global management system involves evaluation of the impact caused by critical events by means of a stan- dard reference scale with three levels. High-impact crises are managed centrally, while medium- or low-impact crisis situations are managed within the specific organisation in the individual countries.
High-impact crises (“Group Red Code”) are addressed by creating a central crisis committee in the Security Control. 
Room at the Viale Regina Margherita headquarters in Rome, supplying support 24/7 for communication and coordination of information flows.
Moreover, the crisis committee defines strategies and ac- tions to deal with critical events and coordinates all actions designed to restrict damage to the Enel Group’s property, profitability and reputation.
Enel SpA has a Security unit in the Holding’s People and Or- ganization Function, aimed at defining strategies and guide- lines on matters of security, reporting to top management and promoting sharing of best practices. Also, a travel safety process has been set up in order to protect Enel people trav- elling in different countries, supplying information and com- munications on destination countries, indicating conditions that can constitute health and safety risks of travellers (e.g.
political turmoil, terror attacks, crime, health threats, etc.), the guidelines and conduct to follow, and activation of the necessary safety measures with regard to the level of risk identified for the destination country.
Further to the new Coronavirus epidemic (Covid-19) in Chi- na towards the end of January and the subsequent spread of contagion in other parts of the world, Enel promptly im- plemented a raft of different actions in all the Group’s geo- graphical areas in order to minimise the risk of contagion and guarantee electricity supplies at the same time. The Com- pany also set up a Global Task Force and specific Local Task. 
Forces, constituted by the Health, Safety, Environment and. 
Quality, Security and Real Time Communications units. In all the countries, the Local Task Force coordinates the pertinent activities and establishes the necessary actions.


151 Occupational health and safety. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Industrial relations on health and safety issues 403-1 403-4 103-2 103-3. 
In order to consolidate the culture of safety and promote the adoption of behaviours that are consistent with compa- ny policies, Enel supports social dialogue and participation of workers’ representatives. Joint committees have been set up for this purpose in the main countries in which Enel is present, dedicated to monitoring the issues and projects concerning workers’ health and safety on the national level and also in terms of Business Lines. In Italy, in implementa- tion of the matters provided for by the national trade union agreement on the “Italian model of Enel Italia industrial relations”, there has been a bilateral commission on work-
COUNTRY JOINT COMMITTEES FOR HEALTH AND SAFETY. 
Italy Apart from the bilateral commission on safety policies and workplace protection set up in 2012, there are two committees working for Infrastructure and Networks and for Generation. Periodic meetings are also organised, involving the employer, the prevention and protection service manager, the medical officer and the workers’ safety representatives. The meetings are held at least once a year.
Russia Each power plant in Russia has a health and safety committee. Each organisational unit has a workers representative for matters of occupational health and safety, for a total of 49 representatives, reporting to the company managers and trade unions.
Romania In compliance with legislative provisions, there are safety and hygiene committees in each company, composed of: representatives of the company members, the specialised physician and professional representatives of the members of trade unions/employee representatives, who meet periodically (every three months) to discuss specific problems and propose measures to manage, control and improve safety.
Spain The Comisión de participación y control has been set up on the national level, while the local level is handled by Comités de seguridad y salud territoriales.
Argentina The power plants have bilateral committees responsible for health and hygiene issues, which meet once a month or once every two months.
Chile All generation centres with more than 25 staff have Comités paritarios de higiene y seguridad, which make decisions concerning occupational health and safety initiatives by means of an annual operating plan. These committees meet once a month.
Peru There are five bilateral committees that also involve the participation of contractor representatives.
Brazil All sites have a Comissão interna de prevenção de acidentes, composed of company representatives and workers’ representatives; attention is focused on setting up accident prevention initiatives.
Colombia Two joint committees have been set up (COPASST), one for networks and one for generation, with the role of promoting the application of occupational medicine legislation.
place safety and protection policies in force since 2012. The commission examines the main projects aimed at improving safety standards, training projects, and preventive initiatives.
In 2013, the Enel Global Framework Agreement created an analogous bilateral commission at the Group level, which defined a “joint recommendation” concerning health and safety standards applicable in all Enel countries. In 2019 ne- gations were set in motion to renew the Enel Global Frame- work Agreement to be signed in 2020. The following details concern the commissions that operate in the main countries on the national and/or local levels.


152 Sustainability Report 2019. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2021 TARGETS 2019 RESULTS CATEGORIES. 
Qualified suppliers1 assessed for health and safety aspects for all product groups 100% 85% Supply chain management. 
Safety policies. 
Qualified suppliers1 assessed for environmental aspects for all product groups 100% 85% Supply chain management. 
Environmental management. 
Qualified suppliers1 assessed for aspects of human rights or business ethics for all product groups 100% 85% Supply chain management. 
Human rights. 
Business ethics. 
Development of a new performance control system enabling the real time recognition and monitoring of suppliers’ performances. 
Track and Rate process launched and extended to the Global Infrastructure and Networks, Enel X and Global Digital Solutions Business Lines. 
Supply chain management 2019 2021 Sustainable supply chain Plan. 
Sustainable supply chain (1/2) 12 12 12 12 102-15


153. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Sustainable supply chain 1 The percentage is calculated considering the total of qualified suppliers and it does not include the major players and subsidiaries of the associated industrial groups.
2020 2022 Sustainable supply chain Plan. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2022 TARGETS CATEGORIES. 
Qualified suppliers1 assessed for health and safety aspects for all product groups 100% Supply chain management. 
Safety policies. 
Qualified suppliers1 assessed for environmental aspects for all product groups 100% Supply chain management. 
Environmental management. 
Qualified suppliers1 assessed in relation to aspects of human rights or business ethics for all product groups 100% Supply chain management. 
Human rights. 
Business ethics. 
Development of a new performance control system enabling the real time recognition and monitoring of suppliers’ performances. 
Supply chain management 12 12 12 12


154 Sustainability Report 2019. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2019 RESULTS CATEGORIES > Strengthening of tender strategies in which assessment of the K technical factor includes sustainability aspects > Start of actions aimed at sharing best practices throughout the entire perimeter of Enel “Sustainability K Library” published on the portal shared by all Global Procurement buyers. 
Supply chain management > Promotion of activities of information and benchmarking with suppliers > Development of circular economy projects, in line with a “Zero waste” approach, and subsequent extension to the business activities > Activity of training of the employees of Global Procurement on sustainability topics > Holding of Vendor Days for Business Lines and Countries; Workshops on Circular Economy for Enel X and Global Infrastructure and Networks > Implementation of circular economy projects1; introduction of circularity K factors that constitute a bonus during tender procedures; Circular training supplied to buyers of the Global Power Generation Business Line > Execution of training activities including the Italy Sustainability Procurement School, the circular economy session during the Global Procurement Day, the circular economy and sustainability session during the Procurement School Staff. 
Supply chain management. 
Development of a new procedure for contractors health and safety evaluation. 
Launch of the Supplier Safety Assessment procedure Supply chain management. 
Safety policies 2019 2021 Sustainable supply chain Piano. 
Sustainable supply chain (2/2) 12 12 12 102-15


155. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Sustainable supply chain 1 Circular economy projects were launched in 2019, such as the EPD project (Environmental Product Declaration), and the “Second Life” project.
2020 2022 Sustainable supply chain Piano. 
SDG ACTIVITIES/TARGETS CATEGORIES > Increase and strengthening of tender strategies in which assessment of the K technical factor includes sustainability aspects > Start of actions aimed at sharing best practices throughout the entire perimeter of Enel. 
Supply chain management > Promotion of activities of information and benchmarking with suppliers > Development of projects in line with the principles of the circular economy, in order to achieve a “zero waste” approach and then extend it to the business activities > Activity of training of the employees of Global Procurement on sustainability topics. 
Supply chain management. 
Human rights. 
Business ethics. 
Training and awareness raising campaigns in relation to the use of applications developed for the new Supplier Performance Management, with a focus on the new evaluation category dedicated to human rights. 
Supply chain management. 
Human rights 12 12 12


156 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Enel’s purchasing processes are based on pre-contractual and contractual conduct geared towards loyalty, transparency and collaboration. In addition to ensuring the necessary quality standards, supplier performance must go hand in hand with the commitment to adopt best practices in terms of human rights, working conditions, occupational health and safety, and environmental responsibility. The Code of Eth- ics, Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan, Policy on Human Rights, Model pursuant to. 
Legislative Decree 231/01 and Enel Global Compliance Program underpin its pur- chasing activities and serve as a guide and code of conduct for suppliers.
Purchases and tenders for goods and services. 
Sustainable supply chain 29,370 suppliers with whom a new contract has been signed 78% online tenders 2,282 contractors monitored with Supplier Performance. 
Management Works, service and supply contracts (mil euros)
Supplies 2017 2,829 5,726 5,245 2018 2019. 
Works 2017 3,713 3,656 3,702 2018 2019. 
Sustainability Report At a Glance Performance indicators. 
Annual Report 102-9 102-10 103-2 407-1 408-1 409-1 414-1 103-3 308-1


157. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Sustainable supply chain and fairness. Every procurement procedure is aimed at guar- anteeing the principles of free competition, equal treatment, non-discrimination, transparency, proportionality, rotation, and public access. Moreover, the economic principle may be sub- ject to criteria laid down by the tender, inspired by social de- mands, as well as protecting health and the environment and promoting sustainable development and social stability.
In terms of environmental sustainability and reducing paper usage, the Group is promoting digital processes with its sup- pliers for qualification/registration, tender management and issuing contracts.
Supplier management and assessment processes 103-2 103-3 ;
Enel carries out structured analyses and monitoring of the procurement process. In particular, it conducts a risk assess- ment on 100% of the procurement merchandise categories.
The main identified risks concern economic, environmental, social and reputational aspects.
95% of Tier 1 suppliers (approximately 10,000 suppliersss) were considered “critical suppliers” based on their strategic nature related to the business, purchase volumes and poten- tial economic, social and environmental impacts.
The Enel Group’s relations with its suppliers undergo basic steps to ensure that the best partners are selected and that contracts are executed to the highest sustainability stand- ards.
1 “Tier 1” suppliers are those with active contracts as of December 31, 2019 of more than 25 thousand euros.
Enel manages relations with its suppliers in a fair, trans- parent and collaborative way, promoting long-term partner- ships. A global strategy with the aim of maximising value creation in its various forms (security, savings, time, quality, performance, revenue, flexibility, risk reduction) and improv- ing stakeholders’ end-to-end experience. The transformation that has been ongoing in recent years is based on: > expanding the professionalism of buyers through us- er-friendly technologies and by recognising everyone’s contribution in a multicultural trust-based working envi- ronment driven by passion; > enhance integration and communication with internal customers, setting out together solutions to fulfil the business’ needs; > involving suppliers from the moment the need comes about, listening to their proposals and developing inno- vative approaches together.
In 2019, Enel set out specific procedures to adopt new methods such as “Design to Value”, which aims to establish innovative solutions in close collaboration with suppliers with an approach that’s open to change, and “Should Cost” to develop quantitative analyses and support negotiations between buyers and suppliers.
Procurement processes are carried out in compliance with the applicable local laws, ensuring the quality of service in full com- pliance with the principles of economy, efficiency, timeliness. 
Services 2017 5,692 4,141 5,428 2018 2019


158 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Circular economy. 
The Enel Group has begun to implement a “Circular Procurement” strategy for the purchase of goods, works or ser- vices to minimise and/or avoid negative environmental impacts and waste creation during their life cycle.
The strategy is based on three key pillars: 1) involving suppliers: developing a reward system by adopting specific instruments in the tender phase to encourage a commitment to the circular economy; 2) establishing metrics and KPIs: quantifying, evaluating and validating environmental KPIs resulting from a product’s manufacturing cycle; 3) co-innovation: launching co-innovation projects together with suppliers in order to review production processes and/or amend purchase methods in accordance with circular economy models.
The “Circular Economy Initiative for Suppliers’ Engagement” project involves about 200 suppliers globally in 12 mer- chandise categories, which currently account for more than 60% of spending for the purchase of materials. The ini- tiative is based on adopting the Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) with the aim of quantifying, certifying and objectively communicating the impacts generated throughout the supplies’ lifecycle (water consumption, CO2, impact on soil, etc.).
Lastly, by adopting a dedicated IT tool (the Circular Supplier Tool), it is possible to aggregate data and set industry benchmarks and improvement targets.
SUPPLIER PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT. 
Contract formalization between suppliers and Enel. 
Evaluation of the supplier’s performance on environmental, occupational safety, social and quality aspects and punctuality of the service. 
Supplier performance


159. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Sustainable supply chain. 
Supplier qualification system. 
Enel has set up a supplier qualification system for the care- ful selection and evaluation of companies wishing to par- ticipate in procurement procedures. The system assesses the technical, financial, legal, environmental, health and safety requirements, human rights and ethical integrity to ensure the proper level of quality and reliability of any awarded contracts.
Each supplier, taking into account their business, can un- dergo a qualification process for one or more Merchandise. 
Categories (MCs): suppliers are only deemed suitable when they meet specific requirements set out for each. 
MC. An accurate and comprehensive analysis is constant- ly carried out of the MC tree involving Enel’s Global Pro- curement units, business units and competent HSEQ ar- eas, by mapping the activities in each MC and assigning a risk level to each issue (security, environment, human rights, spending, irreplaceable supplier, etc.). Following the above-mentioned risk assessment, each MC is grouped into different families associated with their respective assessed risk. Qualification requirements vary based on the implica- tions and specific impacts associated with each group: for example, for a MC with a high environmental risk, the Envi- ronmental Management System ISO 14001 certification is usually required, while for MCs with a high safety risk, it is also required to have the Health and Safety at Work Manage- ment System OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 certification.
The assessment system is regulated by an internal proce- dure and was established in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations. It also includes various assessment procedures to take account of the above-mentioned risk classes.
The system requires compliance with the principles set out in the Code of Ethics, the Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan and Model 231, the Policy on Human Rights, the UN Global. 
Compact with specific reference to the non-conflict of inter- est (even potential conflicts) and – depending on the specific. 
SU. 
PP. 
LI. 
ER. 
Q
U. 
AL. 
IF. 
IC. 
AT. 
IO. 
N
SY. 
ST. 
E
M. 
TENDER AND CONTRACTING PROCESSES. 
Evaluation of safety, environmental and human rights aspects. 
Management of purchase requests by Global Procurement. 
Inclusion of sustainability K-factors in negotiating processes and selection of suppliers. 
Plan of the needs of the Business Lines and staff Functions


160 Sustainability Report 2019 risk classes – it requires specific certificates/self-declara- tions or on-site visits to verify fulfilment of the above require- ments. The company’s compliance with the requirements must be ensured for the duration of the qualification and, as such, companies already included in Enel’s Register of Qual- ified Suppliers are constantly monitored for events that may affect both the company itself and its main representatives, including through the use of external databases.
The qualification system serves as: > a guarantee for Enel, as it provides an updated list of entities with proven reliability (in legal, financial, tech- nical and organisational, ethical, health and safety, and environmental aspects) which it can draw upon; > an opportunity for suppliers to be called to participate in the procurement procedures announced by the Group’s companies, in accordance with the relevant rules.
There are three main areas of analysis: > Health and Safety: the “Safety Self-Assessment” allows. 
Enel to easily send to its suppliers the key requirements to grow together, and in July 2018 it became an inte- gral part of the sustainability requirements for assessing. 
MCs with a Health and Safety risk; > Environment: environmental assessment criteria vary depending on the merchandise category and level of risk associated with each MC on a scale from 1 to 3.
For MCs considered to have a high environmental risk, the ISO 14001 certification or equivalent is always re- quired. Moreover, for these merchandise categories, an on-site audit at the contractor’s premises/sites is always required. As part of the qualification process, Enel has introduced a specific assessment of environmental re- quirements, in addition to the usual checks, for suppliers to be placed on the Supplier Register; > Human Rights: taking a prudential approach, Enel as- sesses suppliers in relation to human rights, regardless of the level of risk, through a dedicated questionnaire which analyses the characteristics of potential suppliers in terms of inclusion and diversity, protection of work- ers’ privacy, verification of their supply chain, forced or child labour, freedom of association and collective bar- gaining and fair working conditions (including fair wag- es and hours worked). In 2019, the questionnaire was integrated with further verification questions for a more accurate assessment of the potential supplier.
Individual suppliers can only be placed on the Supplier Reg- ister (or remain on it if previously qualified) and be invited to participate in the Group’s procurement procedures if it is given an overall positive assessment. If, however, the result is negative, the assessment request will be rejected and the contractor may not be called to take part in Group tenders.
The evaluation of individual sustainability requirements con- tributes to the overall assessment of the company’s suitabil- ity to be placed on Enel’s Supplier Register. In the event that a supplier is deemed non-eligible for the Enel Register as a result of a negative assessment on one or more sustainabil- ity requirements, the supplier may make a new assessment request at a later time.
In 2019, 100% of qualified suppliers were assessed accord- ing to social, environmental and safety criteria2. The number of qualified suppliers with a contract still active at the end of 2019 is approximately 3,100 (around 28% of active suppliers as of December 31), while the total number of active qual- ified companies is approximately 8,200. The following table shows the trend of qualified suppliers as a percentage for the three aspects analysed by process.
2 Only contracts with a value of more than 25 thousand euros (so-called delegated purchases; excluding Sanpaolo, Edesur and part of Romania). The total of new suppliers that did not have a contract in 2018 equalled 3,748 (4,668 in 2018 that did not have a contract in 2017), of which 27% were qualified (17% in 2018).


161. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Sustainable supply chain. 
Tender and contracting processes. 
In 2019, more than 5,000 tenders were launched, approxi- mately 4,000 of which were online. In particular, the online negotiations made it possible to avoid printing more than 1 million pages, reducing the environmental impact of these activities.
Enel has pursued its commitment to introducing sustainabili- ty requirements into the tender process by adopting a specif- ic “sustainability K factor”. It has continued to integrate the so-called “Library” which lists the “sustainability Ks” to be used in tender processes by the different purchasing units in line with the various MCs. There are three main categories in particular: > environmental Ks: for example, with the ISO 14001 certification, waste management, carbon footprint as- sessment according to UNI EN ISO 14067:2018; circular economy projects; > safety Ks: for example, having the OHSAS 18001 certifi- cation, monitoring the main safety indexes; > social Ks: for example, hiring staff in a state of unem- ployment/redundancy/mobility or young first-time job- seekers, or conducting social projects.
For safety aspects For environmental aspects. 
For human rights aspects % assessed qualified suppliers as of December 31 2017 64 27 21 2018 74 74 74 2019 85 85 85. 
Integrity requirements. 
Since 2016, new operating practices have been established and adopted at Group level in terms of checks on sup- pliers’ “integrity requirements” with the aim of consolidating the existing control system through more rigorous action to tackle corruption, particularly by: setting out specific documentary check criteria for legal and integrity requi- rements that are homogeneous and applicable to the procurement process (from the assessment phase through to awarding individual contracts); identifying the operating modes for checks to enhance the preventive tools available and have a rational, organic and determined impact on any cases of corruption or on factors contributing to its spread; promoting a widespread culture of compliance and ethics. An Artificial Intelligence System was later integrated into the system as a tool to analyse and mitigate reputational, environmental and social risks, etc. in order to select and constantly monitor suppliers by checking open sources.


162 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Enel has developed specific contractual clauses in all con- tracts for works, services and supplies, which it updates periodically to take into account the various legislation and align with international best practices. The General Terms and Conditions consist of a general section containing pro- visions applicable to all countries, as well as the Country. 
Annex which contains specific provisions applicable in each country of reference. In terms of sustainability of the sup- ply chain, Enel requires its contractors/suppliers and sub- contractors – among other things – to respect and protect internationally recognised human rights, as well as ethical and social obligations in terms of: child and female labour, equal treatment, non-discrimination, freedom of associa- tion and representation, forced labour, health, safety and environmental protection, sanitary conditions and regula- tions on wages, social security contributions, insurance and tax. It also specifically requires suppliers to commit to adopt and implement the principles of the Global Compact and ensure that these are fulfilled by both their employees and subcontractors when carrying out all activities. Moreo- ver, suppliers must undertake to respect the principles con- tained in Enel’s Code of Ethics, or at least take inspiration from equivalent principles to Enel’s in managing its busi- ness. Lastly, the “International Labour Organization” con- ventions, or the applicable regulations in the country where the activities are carried out if more restrictive, shall apply.
In these areas, Enel reserves the right to carry out any checks or monitoring to verify compliance with the above 6,556. 
Tier 1 suppliers assessed in 2019 (also includes assessmen- ts made during the tender and contract award phase) 20% assessed Tier 1 suppliers who have been assigned improve- ment actions 97% assessed suppliers which present an improvement action plan and whose ESG performance improved following the plan obligations by both the contractor and its subcontractors or entities under its responsibility which are assigned to execute the contract, and to terminate the contract imme- diately in the event of non-compliance with the obligations.


163. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Sustainable supply chain. 
Supplier Performance Management. 
Enel assesses and monitors the performance of its suppli- ers – both during the procurement process and execution of contracts – through the Supplier Performance Management (SPM) process. This aims not only to take restructuring ac- tions, where necessary, but also to encourage suppliers to improve by incentivising best practices through reward schemes.
The Supplier Performance Management process is regulat- ed by a dedicated procedure and based on an objective and systematic disclosure of data and information on the execu- tion of the work defined by the contract. This data is used to develop specific indicators, also called Categories (Qual- ity, Punctuality, Health and Safety, Environment, Human. 
Rights and Fairness and Innovation & Collaboration), which are combined to form a weighted average and produce the. 
Supplier Performance Index (SPI). The categories and SPI can be used as assessment elements for participation in tenders and for the continuation of contractual relationship in accordance with the applicable local requirements. Moni- toring activities are conducted by the various Business Lines with the support of the relevant HSE units, where applica- ble, and the Qualification & Vendor Rating unit. In addition, all individuals who interact with suppliers have the opportu- nity to express their own assessment through the dedicated “Track & Rate” app.
For suppliers with poor performance, Enel adopts solutions that can have an impact on: > the qualification system (for example, suspending the qualification, reviewing the application class, placement on the blacklist, exclusion from the list of qualified sup- pliers, etc.); and/or > the contract (for example, further investigation, im- provement plan, contract termination, reduction in vol- umes, option not required, etc.).
In the event of critical issues in the conduct of a supplier, an action plan may be drawn up jointly, the execution of which is constantly monitored by Enel.
Through the SPM process, 450 MCs and 2,282 contractors were monitored last year (versus 398 MCs and around 2,423 contractors in 2018).
Monitoring systems. 
In each stage of the procurement process, there are spe- cific committees made up of representatives both of the purchasing department and Business Lines, with the task of assessing and monitoring supplier performance. In particu- lar, the following committees have been set up: 1 Qualification committee; 2 Integrity committee: this includes representatives from. 
Global Procurement, the Legal Function and Security. 
Function. It meets every time a critical issue arises, such as an investigation or proceedings relating to breaches by a supplier, and periodically (usually monthly) to share and analyse situations which require specific actions/ sanctions to be applied to supplier companies.
Moreover, individual country-specific units (“Contract Con- trols Area”) have been set up to carry out checks on the responsible management of the supply chain and assess and manage risks relating to joint and several liability (appli- cable to successful tenderers and any subcontractors). The checks include an initial mass document analysis to assess the correct contribution and proper fulfilment of suppliers’ contractual obligations. Next, there is a second level check on a sample of tenders to carry out targeted and thorough checks with on-site inspections.
Training and information 103-2 103-3. 
In recent years, Enel has held several meetings with contrac- tors on sustainability issues to exchange different ideas and approaches. At individual country level, numerous meetings have been held more regularly in the last two years with con- tractors to discuss sustainability issues (Suppliers Days held in Italy, Peru, Colombia, Spain, Romania and Brazil). More- over, on the Global Procurement website, articles are peri- odically published showing Group’s commitment to these issues (https://globalprocurement.enel.com).
Again in relation to protection and awareness, particularly in terms of health and safety, Enel has undertaken numerous initiatives to engage contractors. There has been a signifi- cant decrease in accidents at work in recent years thanks to these initiatives.


164 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Fuel procurement 103-2 103-3 102-9. 
Suppliers of solid and liquid fuel are selected through the “Know Your Customer” process, which evaluates each party’s reputational and financial aspects and possession of the appropriate technical and commercial requirements.
It is also checked that the suppliers are not on any specif- ic “Black Lists” of the United Nations, European Union or. 
OFAC (Office of Foreign Assets Control).
These are lists that identify individuals or organisations as- sociated with terrorist associations, organisations under. 
EU financial sanctions, and the so-called Specially Desig- nated Nationals (SDNs) which are subject to United States sanctions on terrorism or drug trafficking charges amongst others.
To assess the sustainability aspects of coal sources, an internal process has been established to prove that the requirements in line with the Group’s standards on occu- pational health and safety, environment and human rights have been fulfilled.
Purchase contracts agreed with each supplier are subject to the principles adopted by the Group with regard to the. 
Code of Ethics and Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan, with which suppliers must comply. Enel reserves the right to terminate contracts in severe cases of non-compliance with said principles.
Lastly, to mitigate risks arising from shipping fuels, Enel has adopted a tool to vet the carriers it uses. Vetting is a recognised industry standard for oil transportation; but for a few years now, Enel and an increasing number of operators have already begun to apply this method also for transporting bulk cargoes.
Gas Oil Coal. 
Fuel purchases (mil euros) 2017 1,611 834 2,207 2018 (1) 2,024 906 1,698 2019 1,952 970 976 1 2018 value was recalculated to reflect a methodology update.


165. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Sustainable supply chain. 
Bettercoal 103-2 103-3. 
Together with major European electric utilities, Enel is ac- tively engaged in Bettercoal – a global initiative to promote the continuous improvement of corporate responsibility in the international coal industry. Bettercoal has released a code of conduct based on existing and agreed standards of social responsibility in the mining sector. This details guide- lines which mining companies can refer to when drawing up their own social, environmental and ethical policies. The. 
Bettercoal code tells suppliers what members expect from their practices in relation to four main categories: manage- ment; commitment to ethics and transparency; human and labour rights; and environmental performance, while promoting ongoing improvement. In 2019, it has started to review the code to align it with the latest best practices in sustainability, while gathering ideas and feedback from all relevant stakeholders.
After signing a letter of commitment, the mining compa- nies in the programme embarked on a virtuous path repre- sented by the assurance system, accepting to undergo on- site assessments carried out by independent third parties to verify that the code’s principles have been applied, and agreeing on an ongoing improvement plan to overcome any shortcomings.
In addition to Bettercoal’s growing presence in various fo- rums in the area of coal sustainability and supply chain, the initiative has become an example of collaboration geared towards improving socially responsible practices in the supply chain. In 2019, Bettercoal evaluations covered over 400 mil t of coal production. Further reinforcement was giv- en to two working groups dedicated specifically to Russia and Colombia with clear and transparent work plans. In- spections in four sites located in the USA, Colombia and. 
Kazakhstan were also carried out, with active monitoring of 11 improvement plans. To promote greater transparen- cy, four reports were published on the completed on-site assessments, which are available to the public on the Bet- tercoal website. Lastly, the United Nations Global Compact. 
Communication of Engagement and annual report with the help of an external NGO were also published.
For further information, please refer to the website: www.
bettercoal.org.


166 Sustainability Report 2019. 
SDG ACTIVITIES 2020 TARGETS 2019 RESULTS CATEGORIES. 
Reduction of specific SO2 emissions -30% compared to baseline year 2010 0.59 g/kWheq (-39% compared to 2010) Environmental footprint. 
Reduction of specific NOx emissions -30% compared to baseline year 2010 0.60 g/kWheq (-29% compared to 2010) Environmental footprint. 
Reduction of specific dust emissions -70% compared to baseline year 2010 0.12 g/kWheq (-79% compared to 2010) Environmental footprint. 
Reduction of specific water requirements1 -30% compared to baseline year 2010 0.33 l/kWheq (-51% compared to 2010) Water. 
Reduction of waste products -20% compared to baseline year 2015 7.2 mil t (-32% compared to 2015) Waste 2019 2021 Environmental sustainability Plan. 
Environmental sustainability 102-15 12 12 12 12 6
12


167 Environmental sustainability. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix 1 Following the adoption of the new GRI 303, from 2018 the values shown to date as a specific consumption are indicated as a specific requirement. 2 Following the definition of the emission reduction target by 2030, certified by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), these targets were recalculated and based on 2017 values to ensure correct consistency and alignment. The 2022 targets compared to baseline year 2017 for SO2, NOx and dust are respectively -80%, -45%, and -90%. 3 The target set by each country is calculated in relation to the volume of single-use plastic used and refers to 2018. 4 This does not include offices with less than 20 employees.
2020 2022 Environmental sustainability Plan. 
SDG ACTIVITIES TARGETS CATEGORIES. 
Reduction of specific SO2 emissions -85% by 2030 compared to baseline year 20172 Environmental footprint. 
Reduction of specific NOx emissions -50% by 2030 compared to baseline year 20172 Environmental footprint. 
Reduction of specific dust emissions -95% by 2030 compared to baseline year 20172 Environmental footprint. 
Reduction of specific water requirements1 -50% by 2030 compared to baseline year 20172 Water. 
Reduction of waste products -40% by 2030 compared to baseline year 20172 Waste. 
ZERO Plastics Project - Reduction of single-use plastics at Enel Group sites3. 
Launch of the programme to reduce single-use plastics across all geographical areas and definition of an overall target by 2022 > Enel sites in Italy4: -91% by 2021 > Enel sites in Spain: -65% by 2021. 
Waste 12 12 12 12 12 12 6


168 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Net installed capacity (GW) Length of network (km)
By source Total 2,230,029 Thermal 38.9. 
Renewable 42.1. 
Nuclear 3.3. 
By geographical area. 
Europe1 57.1 84.9 85.6 84.3. 
Latin America 21.2. 
North America 5.3. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania 0.8. 
By year 2017 2018 2019 5.282. 
Greece Brazil Bulgaria Canada Chile Colombia Costa Rica Argentina 2 1 Thermal2. 
Nuclear. 
Distribution substations. 
Guatemala India 8 2 2 54 2 -
1 36 13 3 51 5 3 -
- -
- 17,376 449,935 221,758 446,561. 
Renewable3 1 Includes Europe and Euro-Mediterranean Affairs, Italy and Iberia. 2 During 2019, three plants got out of the Group’s scope of consolidation: two in Italy (Mercure and Bastardo) and one in Russia (Reftinskaya). 3 The number of plants by country can vary based on the aggregation criterion that is used (for example, organisational or technology).
102-7 EU1 EU2 EU4. 
Environmental sustainability


169 Environmental sustainability. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Low voltage 1,295,984. 
Net energy production (TWh)
By source. 
Thermal 103.5. 
Renewable 99.4. 
Nuclear 26.3. 
By geographical area 142.8 Europe1 249.9 250.3 229.1. 
Latin America 71.8. 
North America 13.0. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania 1.6. 
By year 2017 2018 2019 5.282. 
Medium voltage 887,439. 
High voltage 46,606. 
Italy Spain Romania Russia. 
Peru Portugal South Africa Zambia USA Panama Mexico 27 3 1 3 -- 28 59 -
- -
- 598 8 8 10 12 265 7 1 3
21,644 225,323 7,417


170 Sustainability Report 2019 1.
2.
3.
4.
Protecting the environment and natural resources, combating climate change, and striving to achieve sustainable economic development are all strategic factors in planning, carrying out, and developing Enel’s activities, and are decisive in consolidating its leadership in energy markets. Since 1996, Enel has observed a Group environmental policy which is based on four key pillars: 1. protecting the environment by preventing impacts to it; 2. improving and promoting the environmental sustainability of products and services; 3. creating shared value for the Company and stakeholders; 4. complying with legal obligations and voluntary commitments, promoting ambitious environmental management practices.
It also pursues ten strategic objectives:
Organization-wide application of internationally recognized Environmental Management Systems based on the principle of continuous improvement and the adoption of environmental indicators to measure the environmental performance of the entire organization.
a. Annual compliance of ISO 14001 certifica- tions present and extension to cover the entire. 
Group perimeter.
b. Rationalization and harmonization of certifica- tion in the various organizational areas; search for synergies and sharing of best practices with regard to environmental management.
Chapter: “Environmental sustainability”
Reducing environmental impact by applying the best available technologies and best practices in the stages of plant construction, operation, and decommissioning, taking into consideration a life cycle analysis approach and the circular economy concept.
a. Environmental impact assessment for the construction of plants or significant changes.
b. Study and application of Best Available. 
Technologies (BAT).
c. Protection and monitoring of the quality of surface water and groundwater in areas around the plants.
d. Internal development and application of international best practices.
Chapter: “Environmental sustainability” – “Commit- ment to the fight against climate change”
Siting industrial plants, infrastructure and buildings, while safeguarding the territory and biodiversity.
a. Development and updating of an Action Plan for Biodiversity.
b. Development of biodiversity protection projects, taking into account the specific features of local environments (conservation of the habitats of protected species, reintroduction of particular species, replanting of native flora, in collaboration with research centres and nature observatories).
c . Performance of bio-monitoring activities (land, seas, rivers).
d . Use of technologies to protect biodiversity.
e. Mitigation of the visual impact and of the impact on the landscape of generation plants and distribution networks.
Chapter: “Environmental sustainability”
Leadership in renewables and in low-carbon electricity generation and efficient use of energy, water resources, and raw materials.
a. Growth in renewable energy production.
b. Improvement of the efficiency of power plants.
Environmental policy


171 Environmental sustainability. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix -
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
c. Reduction in grid losses associated with electrici- ty distribution.
d. Efficient management of water resources for industrial uses, focusing in particular on “water stress” areas.
e. Value the by-products of electricity generation as raw materials for other production processes.
f. Promotion of services and products for energy efficiency in the end-uses.
Chapter: “Environmental sustainability” – “Commitment to the fight against climate change”
Optimal management of waste and wastewater and promotion of circular economy initiatives.
a. Reduction in waste production.
b. Reduction of polluting effect of wastewater.
c. Increase in the percentage recovery of waste and wastewater produced.
d. Qualified selection of suppliers of waste disposal services and use of IT systems for the traceability of waste.
Chapter: “Environmental sustainability”
Development of innovative technologies for the environment.
a.Implementation of systems for increasing plant efficiency and reducing emissions.
b. Promotion and development of smart grids as well as solutions based on the digital management of assets designed to improve environmental performances.
c. Development of innovative solutions for renewable energy production (photovoltaic, geother- mal, wind, marine energy) including the integration of renewable energy and energy storage.
d. Promotion and development of electric mobility.
Chapter: “Environmental sustainability” – “Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms”
Communication on the Company’s environmental results to citizens, institutions and other stakeholders.
a. Publication of the Sustainability Report and open-data access to the Group’s main environmental parameters.
b. Communication with analysts and participation in various sustainability indexes.
c. Consultation and engagement with local stakeholders.
d. Dissemination of environmental initiatives through the Internet.
Chapter: “Environmental sustainability” – “Commitment to the fight against climate change” – “Communities and value sharing”
Employee training and awareness-raising on environmental issues.
a. Training on environmental issues.
b.Employee engagement in campaigns to raise awareness about the environment.
Chapter: “Environmental sustainability”
Promotion of sustainable environmental practices among suppliers, contractors and customers.
a. Use of qualification criteria for the selection of suppliers based on environmental performance.
b.Training initiatives and meetings to inform suppliers about the Enel expectations in terms of management of the environmental impacts due to activities to be undertaken, starting from the work start stage.
c. Assessment of suppliers based on the environ- mental performance achieved during the activities carried out on behalf of Enel.
Chapter: “Environmental sustainability” – “Sustai- nable supply chain”
Complying with legal obligations and voluntary commitments.
a. Guarantee that operations are carried out in compliance with the legal obligations and the commitments undertaken voluntarily, in the various countries.
b. Resolve any cases of non-compliance with regard to the obligations and voluntary commit- ments undertaken.
c. Consider further action and voluntary conduct to protect the environment, even if not part of our legal obligations.
Chapter: “Environmental sustainability”


172 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Strategic factors in the planning, implementation and development of Enel’s op- erations include the protection of the environment and natural resources, com- bating climate change as well as contributing towards sustainable economic development. Moreover, these represent determining factors in consolidating the Company’s position as leader in the energy market.
Since 1996, Enel has been pursuing a Group environmental policy, updated in 2018, and as stated in the opening of this chapter, this policy has been implemented across the Company structure and across its entire value chainss.
Enel oversees all environmental-related activities by means of a structure that ex- tends across the operational units with standardised general environmental policy guidelines, emanating from one central Holding unit. Across the Business Lines and. 
Global Service Functions, structures, dedicated personnel and managers ensure the operational implementation of these common strategic guidelines. In particular, Staff. 
Functions coordinate the management of relevant environmental issues, ensuring the necessary specialist support in line with the Holding guidelines, whilst the operational units manage the specific aspects related to the various industrial sites.
ss Enel Group’s environmental policy extends across the entire value chain and applies: to all the production phases of every product and service, including distribution and logistic phases, in addition to related waste management; to each site and building; all the relationships with external stakeholders; all mergers and acquisitions; every key business partner (including partners related to non-managed operations, joint ventures, outsourcing or third-party producers); every supplier, including service and contractor suppliers; all due diligence processes as well as and Merger and Acquisition processes.
Environmental governance 0.59 g/kWheq SO2 specific emissions 0.60 g/kWheq NOx specific emissions 0.12 g/kWheq dust specific emissions 0.33 l/kWheq specific water requirement 7.2 mil tons of waste produced 114 projects for the protection of biodiversity 103-2 103-3. 
Enel Data on Environment (EDEN)
In 2019, Enel introduced an environmental reporting system called Enel Data on Environment (EDEN). This is an advanced, easy-to-use, and robust tool that collects and manages environmental data whilst also supporting the management of environmental improvement strategies across the various divisions, in addition to collecting all the environmental data for the annual Sustainability Report of all the Group companies. EDEN is capable of recording over 1,750 environmental variables broken down into thematic units (fuels, emissions, waste, water, soil, consumables, stock materials, operational data, environmental improvement interventions, etc.) calculating specific KPIs in line with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). As well as a multi-lingual tool, it can input data for each individual technology, for different organisational levels (plant, country) and different user profiles. As soon as any data is entered it undergoes formal controls and consistency assessments and subsequent series of validations. In the various countries where Enel operates, over 250 personnel with over 20 training sessions were trained in its use.
Sustainability Report At a Glance Commitment to the fight against climate change Performance indicators. 
Annual Report


173 Environmental sustainability. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Environmental Management Systems. 
One of the strategic objectives of the Group’s Environmen- tal policy is the application of the ISO 14001 certified Envi- ronmental Policy Systems, across the whole organisation structure. By the end of 2019, practically all the operational businesses had activated and certified Environmental Man- agement Systems (production plants, networks, services, buildings, sales, etc.). Preparatory work has been commenced for new plants and installations in view of their certification.
Given the complexity and the variety of its activities, the. 
Group decided to adopt management systems using a modular approach. Thus, an ISO 14001:2015 certified man- agement system was established at Holding level, providing guidelines and coordinating the Business Lines in terms of environmental issues. Each Business Line then launched its own Environmental Management System focussed on its own specific activities. The management systems adopted comply with the new requirements introduced under the most recent regulatory standards (14001:2015). In particular, with respect to context analysis, the systems use the ana- lytical data from the Sustainability Report (for further infor- mation, refer to the chapter on the “Definition of priorities”)
Enel Stop Work Policy. 
At Enel we are constantly working to promote and consolidate a culture of health and safety for everyone involved in our activities wherever they are in the world. We are raising awareness of risks and promoting responsible behaviour in order to ensure that work is carried out to a high quality standard without accidents or injuries, because everyone who works with us represents our most precious resource, deserving of our protection. We are committed to protecting the environment, with the conviction that preventing risks and promoting responsible behaviour is key to defending our well-being and that of future generations. We therefore ask each and every one of you to intervene quickly and stop any activity that might jeopardize your health and safety or that of others or, similarly, that might cause harm to the environment. Specifically, these are activities that could be detrimental to the quality of environmental elements (air, soil, water, flora and fauna), or to a site’s archaeological and artistic heritage. We also ask you to promptly report to your immediate superior or to a higher local Enel representative, any unsafe behaviour and any action, omission, or situation that could potentially lead to a workplace injury or environmental damage. The order to Stop Work must be applied without fear of consequences. No blame or responsibility will be attributed to an employee or subcontractor who reports in good faith a situation of particular risk or who stops work, even if this action should subsequently prove to have been unnecessary. Our daily commitment is to the health and safety of workers and the protection of the environment, which take priority over any other need. Francesco Starace Chief Executive Officer and General Manager which take into account both internal and external contexts.
Enel is also registered with the EMAS Scheme (Eco-Man- agement and Audit Scheme, https://corporate.enel.it/it/sto- ries/a/2016/11/certifications-emas) for its main thermoelec- tric and geothermal production sites in Europe. Moreover, in complying with the four fundamental pillars that form the basis of Enel’s environmental policy, specifically in terms of our commitment towards “protecting the environment by preventing adverse effects”, in 2018 the Group’s “Stop Work. 
Policy” was defined, whereby all employees are temporarily required to stop working when risks arise affecting not only their own health and safety, but environmental safety too.
Training is one of the strategic objectives of the Group’s pol- icy and forms an integral part of the Environmental Manage- ment System. In 2019, around 33,000 training hours were given on the Environmental Management Systems, which included, for example, water and waste management, envi- ronmental remediation, and preventative works.
2019 saw the completion of an environmental training pro- gramme aimed at upskilling technical personnel, whilst increasing the environmental awareness of operations management staff. Launched in 2018, across the Thermal. 
Generation in Italy, this programme was extended to oth- er Business Lines and will be extended to other countries throughout 2020.


174 Sustainability Report 2019 experts for power stations and operational structures in order to identify improvement plans and to share best practices. In 2019, the Business Lines across all the countries where the Group operates realised over 230 ECoS (between safety and environment). With a structured approach contained in specific assessment clusters, ECoS have analysed workplaces, control and management systems, organisational structures and environmental practices, in addition to health and safety practices.
> Supplier Environmental Assessment. Considering the importance of suppliers in defining the Company’s com- plex environmental services, at the end of 2019 Enel de- cided to adopt a structured and homogeneous supplier environmental assessment procedure across the Group.
This supplier assessment can be implemented during the supplier qualification phase, especially for high-risk environmental activities requiring a minimum standard to be qualified as an Enel supplier. However, if signifi- cant environmental events should occur, a supplier may undergo an extraordinary assessment for the purposes of identifying the areas for improvement, which the sup- plier is then required to implement, to prevent this event from re-occurring in the future.
Environmental risk analysis 102-15. 
In order to identify and minimise environmental risks related to its activities, Enel, as well as adopting the ISO 14001 certified. 
Environmental Management Systems across every single pro- duction site and operational unit, also uses an important analyt- ical and intervention tool at Group level which works in synergy across all these entities to protect the environment.
> Group Policy for the classification and analysis of. 
Accidental Environmental Events. Accidental Environ- mental Events are classified according to their type and relevance. This classification is based on their possible impact on the environmental matrices and on any poten- tial sensitive areas (eco-systems and protected areas), in addition to their negative impact on the organisation itself. The policy defines the communication procedures for such events, analysing their causes, monitoring sub- sequent corrective actions and improvements in accord- ance with their classification and relevance. Rigorously applying them across all the Group organisational activ- ities ensures Enel’s ownership of a robust and timely environmental control tool.
> Environmental Risk and Opportunity Assessment. 
Policy. Throughout 2019 and at Group level, over 1,200 environmental risk analyses were performed in as many operational sites and Staff Functions across all the geo- graphical areas where Enel operates, consolidating pre- vious divisional approaches into one single model which is a shared, organic and homogeneous analytical model.
This analysis, specifically, has ensured a more effective identification, classification and management of risks and opportunities both for the environment and for the organisation. The adoption of this approach, with an in- creased focus on the entire life cycle, involved the anal- ysis of the processes and operational activities carried out at each site or territorial environment. It assesses potential interactions with the environmental matrices as well as using controls or regulatory compliance, in- cluding the most stringent self-imposed targets, to en- able continuous improvement. Risk assessments were also extended to environmental issues related to gov- ernance and to the strategic guidelines applied from the organisation’s central Functions.
> Extra Checking on Site (ECoS) Policy. ECoS is a planning and site visit tool used by groups of inter-departmental


175 Environmental sustainability. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Emissions 305-1 305-7. 
Constant reduction of environmental impacts associated with the running of our power plants is a strategic objec- tive pursued by Enel by applying the best available tech- nologies and international practices. In 2019, the values of CO2 and pollutant emissions decreased both as regards mass emissions as well as for the specific values due to reduced thermoelectric generation, in particular coal-fired, in comparison to 2018. The reduced thermoelectric generation resulted partially from the removal of the Russian Reftinska- ya coal-fired power plant from the scope of consolidation, due to its sale, on October 1, 2019.
Greenhouse gas emissions. 
Reduction of greenhouse gases is one of the priority targets indicated in the environmental policy, pursued by gradual ex- pansion of renewable energy production and improvement of infrastructure efficiency.
In particular, greenhouse gas emissions deriving from Enel’s industrial activities are mainly due to emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from thermal generation and, more marginally, to leakage of sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) from the distribu- tion network. CO2 specific emissions in 2019 amounted to2 296 g/kWheq in line with the target certified by the Science. 
Based Targets initiative which the Group had set for 2030.
For further details on greenhouse gas emissions, please re- fer to the chapter “Commitment to the fight against climate change”.
SO2, NOx and dust 103-2 103-3 305-7. 
Particular focus is placed on the emissions of the main air- borne pollutants associated with thermal generation: sul- phur dioxides (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and dust. For ss Value related only to consolidated production. In relation to the overall value of the capacity managed, CO2 emissions amount to 284 g/kWheq.
this purpose, in 2019, works on specific thermal generation plants, mainly coal-fuelled plants, worth a total of 145 million euros, were carried out, in addition to the establishment of a 187 million euros three-year investment plan for 2020-2022.
The choice of the most suitable work to improve the environ- mental performance for each plant is based on an analysis that, starting from the best technologies and international practices, takes into account factors such as: the local con- text and priorities, the plant operating methods, meaning the hours of operation each year, the current plant engineering configuration and the outlook for its productive life.
Emission measurements are carried out in compliance with each country’s regulatory framework and, in the majority of the large plants, a measurement system is used that can assess compliance with the limits in real time. Its reliability is guaranteed by accredited certifying entities and through assessments carried out by inspection authorities.
2019, compared to 2018, saw a fall in emissions, for all the main pollutants both in absolute and specific terms. These reductions are ascribable both to lower production from fos- sil fuels, particularly coal, and to the implementation of effi- ciency measures.
In particular, SO2 specific emissions were equal to 0.59 g/ kWheq (-21% vs 2018), those of NOx were 0.60 g/kWheq (-17% vs 2018) and those of dust were 0.12 g/kWheq (-29% vs 2018)ss. The drop in dust is mainly linked to the reduced pro- duction from coal sources recorded during the yearss. Enel, in relation to the values in 2010, sets its targets of atmospheric emissions reduction, to be achieved by 2020, which are based on the Industrial Plan and the plans for the installation or for the upgrading of abatement systems. These targets were achieved a year in advance for specific SO2 and dust values, whereas, for NOx emissions, these will be achieved by 2020.
The Group, furthermore, in relation to the values in 2017, set further emissions reduction targets specifically related to atmospheric pollutants by 2030. Targets and reductions trend are in line with the recognised “science-based” target, set by the SBTi, to achieve specific CO2 emission values below 125 g/kWheq.
ss Compared to the base year 2010, SO2 emissions have dropped by 39%, NOx by 29% and dust by 79%.
ss The emissions from the Retfinskaya coal plant in Russia contributed significantly to this, as these emissions were accounted only for a ninemonth period following the exit of the plant, for sale, from the scope of consolidation.


176 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Reduction of SO2 specific emissions (g/kWheq) 2017 Base year 0.75 0.59 0.84 2018 2019 2022 Target 2030 Target -80% vs base year 2017 -85% vs base year 2017. 
Reduction of NOx specific emissions (g/kWheq) 2017 Base year 0.72 0.60 0.79 2018 2019 2022 Target 2030 Target -45% vs base year 2017 -50% vs base year 2017. 
Dust reduction (g/kWheq) 2017 Base year 0.17 0.12 0.27 2018 2019 2022 Target 2030 Target -90% vs base year 2017 -95% vs base year 2017 0.43 0.40 0.17 0.13 0.03 0.01


177 Environmental sustainability. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Energy 302-3 302-4 103-2 103-3 302-1. 
Efficient energy use for Enel means, on the one hand, max- imising the yields from mixed sources (thermal, nuclear and renewables), and, on the other hand, constantly improving network efficiencies. Enel’s strategy for energy consump- tion reductions thus involves investments to increase the efficiency in all the Group’s activities, from production to dis- tribution, whilst focussing on increasing greater behavioural awareness (for further information, refer to chapter “Com- mitment to the fight against climate change”). In 2019, improvement of process efficiency and implementation of operational excellence programmes continued in the vari- ous Business Lines. Energy consumption mainly includes fossil fuels for the operation of thermal power plants and uranium for nuclear power plants. A limited share of energy consumption is related to operation of the plants generating electricity from renewable sources.
Total direct consumption of fuel was 1,257,972 TJ (30.1. 
Mtoe). Fuel energy consumption over the year recorded a fall of 19% on 2018, due to lower thermal generation, spe- cifically coal-fuelled production. Geothermal energy produc- tion in Italy and Chile has remained substantially stable. The. 
Group’s energy intensity, which provides a measure of its operational efficiency, in 2019 was 5.4 MJ/kWheq, down 10% on the previous year. This decrease reflects the change in the production mix in the year which is showing, with a decrease in thermal generation, an increase in production activity from renewable energies.
As per the previous year, during 2019 various interventions. 
Fuel consumption by primary source (,000 TJ)
From renewable sources From non-renewable sources 2017 59 1,672 2018 59 1,488 2019 54 1,204. 
Coal 40. 
Total consumption of fossil fuels for simple and combined thermal generation - Mtoe (%)
Lignite 1. 
Fuel oil 6. 
Gas oil 7. 
Natural gas 46. 
Energy intensity (MJ/kWheq) 2017 6.8 6.0 5.4 2018 2019


178 Sustainability Report 2019 in terms of energy efficiency were implemented. In Italy, for example, in 2019, for e-distribuzione, a total of 1,651,295. 
ESC (Energy Saving Certificates5) were purchased, in ad- dition to 769,033 ESCs to finalise the quotas due for 2018 (end May 2019); during the period June-December 2019, necessary ESCs were purchased to acquit the annual 2019 obligation due on May 31, 2020. Romania on the other hand saw savings for approximately 160,000 GJ, thanks to main- tenance and upgrading works carried out in the stations and 5 Energy Saving Certificates (also known as white certificates) issued by Gestore del Servizio Elettrico (Electrical Services Authority) are the equivalent of saving 1 ton of oil equivalent (toe) which is the standard measurement unit commonly used in energy reports to express all sources of energy, taking into account their calorific value. Electricity distributors can thus achieve their targets of energy efficiency increase by realising energy-saving projects and by obtaining the associated issuance of ESCs, or by buying ESCs from other parties.
substations as well as the replacement of equipment and power transformers, restructuring works and upgrades of the transformation stations and the installation and use of smart meters. In Spain, in the Puentes nuclear power plant, 83,450 GJ where saved due to upgraded cooling towers, tur- bines as well as interventions to minimise the losses from the air pre-heaters and the replacement of conventional equipment with LED devices.
Water 303-2 103-2 103-3 303-1 303-3. 
Reduction of specific water requirements (l/kWheq) 2017 Base year 0.38 0.33 0.44 2018 2019 2030 Target -50% vs base year 2017 0.22. 
Responsible use of water resources is one of the strategic targets of the environmental policy and requires the adop- tion of an integrated approach based on three lines of action as shown below.
> Efficient use of water resources also through con- trol of leaks. The Enel Group collects water from water sources mainly for industrial uses, such as cooling and airborne abatement systems (for example desulphuri- sation, the abatement of nitrogen oxides), and uses it for the most part for thermal and nuclear generation. In 2019, total water requirement amounted to approxi- mately 77.3 mil m3, down by around 20% compared to 2018 (96.3 mil m3), due to a lower thermal generation, especially from coalss. The Group’s specific water re- quirement, including thermal, nuclear, geothermal, and other activities for industrial uses, amounted to 0.33 l/ kWheq in 2019, about 13% lower than the previous year in line with the target to reduce the Group’s specific wa- ter requirementss.
Enel pursues the target of reducing its specific water requirement. The target of a 30% reduction by 2020, with respect to the 2010 values, was achieved by the 2017 results, three years in advance. The Group set a further reduction target of 50% for water specific con- sumption by 2030 in relation to 2017. From the results achieved, and based on the three-year Industrial Plan which envisages an efficient use of water resources 6 This value does not include water used in open-cycle cooling because the same quantity of water used is returned to the original water body without any altered chemical characteristics and with minimum temperature variations (always within the limits fixed by the statutory regulations of the countries where Enel operates).
7 Compared to the base year 2010, there was a 51% reduction in specific water requirement.


179 Environmental sustainability. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix in the existing thermal plants, it is also evolving to- wards mixed sources, renewable energies, in addi- tion to reducing power generation from fossil fuels sources by changing the scope of its power stations.
The total water requirements for the Group’s production activities are covered by withdrawing from sources that are non-scarce (seawater), scarce (surface freshwater, groundwater and water from industrial aqueducts) or through the use of wastewater from production process- es. The Group is committed to reducing water consump- tion in its production processes, specifically promoting water recirculation within the plants. In some coal-fired power stations, for example, drainage water from the closed-circuit cooling towers is reused in desulphuri- sation, whereas the use of crystallisers downstream to the desulphurisers allows the total recovery of the wastewater.
Enel is constantly monitoring all its production sites lo- cated in areas at risk of water scarcity in order to man- age the water resource as efficiently as possible. In par- ticular, site monitoring takes place through the following levels of analysis: > mapping of the production sites located in potential “water scarcity” areas, where the average value of the renewable water resources per person is below the benchmark set by the FAO (mapping is done using the Global Water Tool of the World Business. 
Council for Sustainable Development); > identification of “critical” production sites, i.e.
production sites in “Water Scarcity Areas” with a freshwater supply; > more efficient water management to maximise wastewater and seawater supplies.
In 2019, approximately 8% of total energy produced by the Enel Group used freshwater in so-called “water stressed” areasss. In these areas, water is withdrawn mainly from scarce source and comprises 14% of the. 
Group’s overall supply.
The high increase in the number of solar plants, natural- ly suited to installation in “water stressed” areas, had brought to the fore a new water use connected with the cleaning of dust deposits on the surfaces of the photo-voltaic panels. Although these represent insignif- 8 The World Resources Institute (WRI) defined a “Water Stressed Area” as an area where the availability of water pro capite per annum is less than 1,700 m3.
icant volumes, Enel has adopted cleaning techniques for these plants based on algorithms to optimise water consumption.
> Optimisation of wastewater treatment and pro- tection of the water quality in the destination en- vironment. Wastewaters is the water used in plants which, after recovery and reuse for internal purposes, is returned to the original surface water bodies. Water is always discharged downstream to the treatment pro- cess, removing any potential pollutants present to avoid any negative impacts, always within the national bench- marked and regulatory standards. Where locally permit- ted, Enel uses, as incoming water resources for its own processes, wastewaters, typically supplied by waste management consortia downstream to the treatment processes.
> Responsible and integrated management of the hy- dro-geological basins to preserve their multiple land uses and water quality. The activities of hydroelectric power stations are an important element of water man- agement. These power stations, which do not contrib- ute to the Group’s water consumption in that the water withdrawn is completely returned to its source, provide a series of additional services for the Company in solely generating renewable energies.
In fact, a variety of power stations, jointly managed by public stakeholders and private entities, manage the water resource for multi-purpose services ranging from flood control, drinking water and irrigation, fire preven- tion services, to river waste dam retention works, with- out forgetting numerous cultural initiatives, leisure and nature-based activities organised with respect to the installations themselves. The contribution of the hydro- electric power plant reservoirs is particularly relevant in counteracting the effects of climate change as the plant increases the level of community protection in areas where communities are consistently subject to increas- ingly frequent extreme flooding events or long periods of drought.
It can be furthermore underlined the management of the outflows from the hydroelectric power stations through specific programmes to ensure the required volumes to preserve river ecology (minimum vital water flows).


180 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Enel Green Power: GIS - the hydroelectrical portal. 
Hydro-electrical technology is amongst the renewable energy sources which can significantly benefit from using a platform and geo-location analytical tools given that energy production is closely linked to geographical parameters, to meteorological data, to the overall management of water resources, including for emergency scenarios, and to the context of civil and territorial works.
Enel Green Power has developed the first GIS Portal (Geographic Information System) to implement and maintain its hydroelectric power stations. This creates a unified geographic framework to store, process, analyse and submit various types of data with geography as the key information variable. This portal will be able to assist decision-making processes.
All the data is organised into thematic “layers” in relation to the position and the geometry of the digitalized asset and correlated with the GIS information collected through well-established technologies such as satellites, drones, lasers, scanners. Notably, the GIS portal for O&M Hydro is grouped into four categories: > assets: here the applications are for the digital mapping of the power stations, providing a revision functionality of the power plant components, cadastral data and geographical analyses; > Hydro Plants Monitoring: the applications developed here are specialised and operational and carry out monitoring based on the parameters for hydroelectric power plants. Specialist applications serve to facilitate the correlation of the geo-service data into “theme” layers with the hydroelectric assets and they are mainly focused on: management of emergencies, risk evaluation, geology, hydrology, environmental information and meteorological data.
The operational applications are: geo-data processing to calculate and map water courses and their hydrographic basins, to collect and analyse the data of the basins and a personalised application to record changes – “Change. 
Detection” – for the purposes of comparing the satellite images with various timestamps provided by the European satellite service Sentinel, correlated with the position of the water resource asset; > drones: used to collect and process the data collected from drone inspections. This data is then published on the GIS portal for further analysis and for the “Change Detection” techniques to be applied in consecutive flights in order to identify any changes in the assets themselves or on the ground, and to pre-empt any potential risk scenarios; > specialist inspections: to collect GIS data from specifically innovative projects such as GPR inspections (Ground. 
Penetrating Radar), geological data monitoring of landslides in real-time using IoT sensors in the field as well as laser scanner data.
An online GIS software is in the process of being developed and will be dedicated to production process planning, in addition to managing emergency events 72 hours in advance using predictions to calculate incoming volumes into the hydrographic basins where the Group’s hydroelectric power stations are located. This specific module will be able to both model the terrain in terms of type, levels of humidity and other relevant variables, using the Enel Green Power inflow/ outflow model, as well as providing projections on the availability of the water resources using hourly meteorological forecast data.


181 Environmental sustainability. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Waste. 
Another strategic objective of Enel’s environmental policy is optimum waste management (for further information, re- fer to point 5 of the environmental policy) which details the specific lines of action inspired by the Waste Hierarchy Pre- vention community principles and by the circular economy.
In order to further reinforce this commitment and within the perspective of continuous improvement, throughout 2019. 
Enel introduced Group Guidelines on Waste Manage- ment, where best practices deemed fundamental for opti- mum waste management were collected and collated under a common denominator for all the Business Lines, for waste directly produced or produced by subcontractors’ activities.
Waste management strategies adopted across all Enel pro- duction sites mainly focus on preventing waste produc- tion, particularly hazardous waste, thereby maximising the quantities for reuse, recycling or recovery, such as by-products, secondary raw materials or used as energy sources only using waste disposal to landfills in accordance with legal requirements, as a last resort.
Enel specifically set important waste product reduction targets, as shown in the “2020-2030 Target” on waste.
There was also a greater effort in acquiring transparent and. 
Reduction of waste (mil t) 2017 Base year 9.0 7.2 9.4 2018 2019 2030 Target -40% vs base year 2017 5.64 comparable information on the environmental impact of substances and supplied products, in an eventual life-cy- cle; for example taking into account the environmental prod- uct declarations, where available.
Similarly, increasing focus was also placed on the adoption of the Extended Producer Responsibility models (EPR) also in relation to the post-consumption phases of the prod- ucts and services provided. Of particular interest in relation to this in 2019 was the Enel X commitment in using a model integrated with the e-mobility services which ensured a rig- orous and efficient end-of-life management of the electric car recharging infrastructures (box stations, pole stations, fast-recharges) and their recovery (up to 95% in weight) as. 
WEEE products through its membership, in Italy, in the Re- media consortium.
In the same way, the environmental qualification of all providers, including specifically providers of waste process- ing and recovery services, has become an integral part of. 
Enel’s environmental management model. This seeks to pro- mote increasingly higher levels of requirements in relation to environmental sustainability management across its entire supplier base.
The commitment to a continuous increase in the percentile recovery of waste produced is fundamental to ensure an efficient transition from a linear economy to a circular econo- my in order to minimise the exploitation of natural resources in accordance with sustainable objectives and in combating climate change.
The significant recovery of process waste arising from thermal power generation plays a fundamental role in this due to the significant quantities linked to the progress of the production activities and to their chemical-physical proper- ties. These mainly include coal ash and desulphurisation gyp- sum, reused in building works to produce cement, concrete and bricks according to specific technical and environmental control requirements. Many other maintenance products are sent for complete recovery from the thermal power stations, such as waste oils, a large number of metal waste products, iron, copper, aluminium as well as waste from pri- mary filtration processes in the hydroelectric plants.
An important commitment was furthermore undertaken last year to focus on ensuring the recovery of waste products arising from demolition and dismantling of end-of-life 103-2 103-3 306-2


182 Sustainability Report 2019 power plants and from re-purposed power plants under the. 
Futur-e project, by using selective demolition techniques of the structures, as well as solutions to enhance the materials produced.
In order to identify and to continue more targeted and ef- ficacious improvement initiatives, particular attention was paid in 2019 to assessing the quantities of hazardous waste across the Group’s main geographic areas focussing on the waste products generated from the management of the electricity distribution networks and their recovery pro- grammes. The main waste products in this sector mainly comprise dielectric mineral oils used in the insulation of elec- trical equipment and end-of-life accumulators used as ener- gy reserves in transformation stations. Once classified as waste products, these oils are sent to companies registered/ authorised for regeneration and waste-to-energy treatment, where regeneration is not possible, whereas the end-of-life accumulators are sent to registered/authorised companies that can recover secondary raw materials.
Particularly relevant within the scope of the Business Line infrastructure & Networks are the results obtained by the projects launched across various countries for the sustain- able replacement of intelligent first-generation meters and the recovery of their constituent materials. Specifi- cally, in Italy, in 2017, a campaign was launched to replace around 31 million smart meters, and by the end of 2019, over 6 million smart meters of first generation were replaced. A meter comprises 65% plastic, with the remaining materials being iron (12%), copper (7%) and electronic circuit boards (7%). These materials can be properly recovered in autho- rised processing plants and so become reusable resources in other production cycles. From the perspective of the cir- cular economy, even non-plastic materials are completely recyclable: electric circuit boards for example can be sent for gold recovery, copper can be used in the production of brass, iron in the building industry.
In relation to the overall data reported, in 2019, Enel pro- duced approximately 7.2 mil t of waste of which 99% were classified as non-hazardous. All the waste produced by the. 
Group’s activity was sent to authorised sites based on their waste classification, prioritising and maximising their re- covery, in line with the Group’s policies. The quantities pro- duced were 20% less than in 2018ss. This variation is due to a lower production of waste from the thermal power plants, specifically from coal-fuelled plants. Waste products sent for recovery across the whole Enel structure counted for approximately 19% of the total waste produced; a slight im- provement on the previous year. The waste reduction target in terms of quantity amounted to 20% compared to the base year 2015 and was achieved a year in advance.
Enel has therefore set itself a further target: a 40% reduc- tion in waste production by 2030 compared to the reported totals in 2017. This target is based on results already achieved and takes into account, in addition to the three-year Industrial. 
Plan which envisages an evolution of the energy mix towards renewable energies, the best projections currently available for the period subsequent to the plan’s time frame.
ss There has been a 32% reduction in waste products compared to the base year 2015.
ZERO Plastics Project. 
The “ZERO, towards a plastic-free world” project aims to gradually eliminate the use of single-use plastics within the. 
Enel Group. The World Environment Day, June 5, 2019, saw Enel at the forefront of the global fight for a better planet, empowering the whole Group, with tens of thousands of people engaged actively in protecting the environment.
The project was launched in Italy and Spain, and will be extended to other countries where Enel operates, from 2020 onwards. This involves the elimination of single-use plastics from the Group’s main offices and will be subsequently extended to all the administration headquarters and finally to the industrial sites.
In 2019, in Italy alone, this initiative involved 29 sites of approximately 10,000 employees. The project had a significant impact on catering services, which was mainly comprised of vending machines, bars and canteens. Water fonts connected directly to the water network have been installed to refill water bottles, whilst bars and canteens have


183 Environmental sustainability. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Soil, subsoils and subterranean waters reviewed their own structures in terms of this “plastic free” initiative. Where it was not possible to eliminate single-use cutlery and crockery, these items were replaced by compostable materials. This initiative was launched in conjunction with a communication and awareness campaign seeking to encourage all employees to engage in responsible behaviours in the workplace as well as at home.
It is estimated that in 2019, this reduced the consumption of 27 t of single-use plastic, saving 59 t of CO2 emissions, 1,300 m3 of water and 532 MWh of electrical energy. Thus it is envisaged that plastics will be completely eliminated from main offices by 2021, well in advance of the deadline set by the new European directive. In Italy and Spain, in particular, the project foresees a reduction in the consumption of single-use plastic in the administration offices respectively by 91% and 65% compared to 2018. Similar targets will be defined throughout the course of 2020 for all the countries where the Group operates.
Furthermore, during the subsequent stages of the project, ZERO will be also extended to the supply chain.
103-2 103-3. 
Enel continues with its commitment to using the most ad- vanced technologies available as well as applying best prac- tices during the construction, operation and the decommis- sioning of its power stations to minimise any potential envi- ronmental impacts caused by its activities. Among the various areas of prevention, the highest level of attention is focused on the safeguarding, monitoring and reclaiming of soil, subsoil and subterranean water in the areas occupied by its plants wherever it operates globally. The safeguarding of these environmental factors is the driver, starting from the very first life-cycle phase of every plant, to every project choice and management decision. Both active and passive protection and safety measures will be used to prevent any possible form of uncontrolled or accidental contact of poten- tially polluting substances (fuels, reagents, liquid and waste flows) with soils and subterranean waters. At the same time, during plant operations, every process will undergo compli- ance controls as well as ongoing upgrades as required by the. 
Environmental Management Systems to prevent and mini- mise the risks of any potential environmental contamination.
In the event of an accident, the application of the Stop Work and Emergency Management Policies aims to eliminate any possible environmental impact, rigorously complying with the provisions and the legal obligations of the various countries.
Thus, before power plants come to the end of their life cycle and are dismantled, and before the reassignment of the area to new development projects, Enel can, according to the authorised provisions and legal requirements of the various countries, verify the environmental quality of the soil, subsoil and groundwater in the areas where the plant is located.
In the case of potential contamination due to an accident or in light of inspections carried out on the end of life plants,
Enel, based on the intervention plans agreed with the com- petent authorities and inspection entities, can characterise the environmental matrices in the areas of potential interest, and implement, if necessary, safety and remediation proce- dures, to restore, in a timely manner, a suitable quality status for the planned use of the area (industrial/commercial, resi- dential). Particular focus is on power plants falling within the large industrial hubs.
In case of spills, mostly related to thermal generation and energy distribution, the Group reacts with prompt contain- ment interventions as well as the subsequent environmen- tal remediation are carried out by specialist companies, ac- cording to procedures imposed by local regulations and best internal practices. To mitigate further risks related to hold- ing substances which could have an environmental impact, there are various pilot programmes in course which involve the use of vegetable oil, a biodegradable oil, to replace the traditional insulation mineral oil.


184 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Of which voluntary. 
Monitoring Restoration (habitat) Conservation (species)
Italy. 
Spain. 
Romania. 
Greece. 
Brazil. 
Chile. 
Colombia. 
Argentina. 
Peru. 
South Africa. 
North America. 
Panama. 
Guatemala. 
Mexico. 
Class. 
Country 52% 95% 100% -
7% 13% 43% -
- -
13% -
- -
7 5
1 2
17 10 3
1 3
2 3
- 1
1 1
5 -
- 8
3 2
- -
- 1
1 -
- -
- 13 6
4 -
2 1
2 -
- -
- -
- -
Projects by category Projects Species involved ecosystems ecosystems Wet Mammals Bats Birds Fish Amphibians and reptiles. 
Terrestrial Aquatic zones. 
Flora. 
Number 21 20 5
2 27 15 7
1 3
2 8
1 1
1. 
Biodiversity 103-2 103-3 304-4


185 Environmental sustainability. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Country. 
Italy. 
Spain. 
Romania. 
Greece. 
Brazil. 
Chile. 
Colombia. 
Argentina. 
Peru. 
South Africa. 
North America. 
Panama. 
Guatemala. 
Mexico. 
Type Critically Endangered (CR)
Endangered (EN)
Vulnerable (VU)
Near Threatened (NT)
Least Concern (LC) 1
1 -
1 -
- 3
- -
- -
- -
- 2
1 1
2 5
4 8
- -
- 4
- -
- -
12 -
7 13 7
37 -
- -
- -
- 1
2 25 2
7 7
2 16 -
1 -
4 -
- 1
4 296 19 2
948 17 248 -
2 -
19 -
- 11. 
Habitats affected. 
Extinct (EX)
Extinct in the Region (RE)
Critically Endangered (CR)
Endangered (EN)
Vulnerable (VU)
Near Threatened (NT)
Least Concern (LC)
Extinct in the Wild (EW)
The Red List, which is drawn up by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), provides information on the conservation status of various species.
Number of threatened species


186 Sustainability Report 2019 requirements of the territory, defining the project to create long-term values for itself and for the local communities.
Knowledge of the location and its specific qualities entails the involvement of local professionals in the activities in the field, carrying out certain work relating to the protection of the biodiversity of the site pre-operation (baseline), such as flora and forest inventories, a census of the animal species in the area impacted by the power plant, especially for species which need to be partly retrieved and relocated. Then follow the authorisation phases, realised in accordance with local regulations, where various alternatives are assessed and the most suitable actions decided to minimise the impact of the power plant on the relevant habitats and species. The implementation of authorised provisions and the proposed mitigations similarly require the involvement of external professionals during the plant building phase. Once opera- tional, the protection of the biodiversity becomes an integral part of the environmental management plans. During this phase, there are regular inspections to control the impacts highlighted during the authorisation phase. This is also the moment where the plant consolidates its relationship with the territory and where initiatives are developed, such as voluntary projects, to safeguard local species based on the. 
Biodiversity (SDG 14 and SDG 15) is one of the strategic tar- gets of the environmental policy and is regulated by a specif- ic policy which Enel adopted in 2015 defining the guidelines for all the Group’s biodiversity protection initiatives for gen- erating, transmitting and distributing electrical energy.
Enel has a consolidated experience in the management of biodiversity in the areas around its sites. Activities for biodi- versity conservation follow the development of the power station facilities and in recent years have focussed on the re- newable segment and on the networks across an increasing number of countries. Vast scale monitoring continues in the power plants and across the Group’s long established instal- lations in the territory, to prevent the impacts on coastal and river environments. In relation to location management, and in particular in relation to renewable-energy power plants, the potential exposure to a biodiversity risk is highlighted during the feasibility phase analysis of new power plants, taking into account the geographic closeness of the sites to protected areas, to important biodiversity zones, and the potential presence of endangered species. This evaluation is part of a more extensive analysis for the application of the “Creating Shared Value” module through which the Com- pany engages with the socio-economic and environmental. 
Enel’s policy on biodiversity has been developed to contribute to the objectives of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020 and the associated Aichi targets.
In particular, our company is committed to: planning activities which can impact species and natural habitats respecting the principle of the “mitigation hierarchy”, whereby priority is given, frst, to avoid or prevent negative impacts; second, where impacts cannot be avoided, to minimize damage and rehabilitating their efects; and, lastly, to compensate (or ofsetting) for residual adverse impacts; in case of unavoidable impacts, taking measures to compensate the residual impact to achieve “no net loss” of biodiversity and, where applicable, a positive net balance; performing, for every new installation, impact studies that include a systematic assessment of the efects on biotypes, animal and vegetal species with the aim of avoiding operating in areas with the highest biodiversity values and adopting the best solutions to decrease the pressures on biodiversity elsewhere; cooperating with local communities, academia or NGOs to identify the values of biodiversity and to develop projects for the ecosystem safeguard and restoration; monitoring the efectiveness of implemented measures; reporting regularly on its performance related to biodiversity.
POLICY ON BIODIVERSITY


187 Environmental sustainability. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix knowledge of the environment surrounding the site.
Enel is furthermore committed to maintaining the manage- ment of the biodiversity aligned with industry best practices.
With this in mind, in 2019, Enel adopted Group Guidelines on the management of biodiversity in the development of new projects up to operation and decommissioning.
Moreover, with the objective to involve and create increased awareness of biodiversity conservation, an internal commu- nication campaign was launched featuring some of the most significant projects carried out over the year. In conjunction with the communication campaign, an internal photogra- phy competition to represent examples of the integration of the biodiversity with the Group infrastructures was also launched.
In 2019, 114 projects for the protection of species and natural habitats were launched, with an overall investment of 8.9 million euros to recover 1,300 hectares of habitat10.
ss The reduction of zones with biodiversity projects compared to 2018 (3.9 million hectares) and of the number of projects (157 in 2018) is due to the application of the increasingly restrictive measures in determining the areas that require to be monitored and analysed within the scope of biodiversity projects.
These projects operate mainly in Brazil, Chile, Spain and It- aly, and mostly involve technologies such as hydroelectric, wind and electricity networks. Examples of the biodiversity mitigation measures through the related policy are available on the site’s Sustainability section https://www.enel.com/ investors/biodiversity. Some measures are implemented during the plant work site phase (for example, during the construction of the power plant), others take longer to imple- ment and include long-term off-setting (for example, the fish re-stocking project at the EI Quimbo plant).


188 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Coracias project: protection of the European roller. 
Also known as the Coracias garrulus, the European roller is the only bird belonging to the coraciiform order of birds that reproduces in Europe but it can also be found in the Middle East, Central Asia and Morocco. This is a resilient bird, similar to the jackdaw in terms of size (29-32 cm long with a wing span of 52-58 cm). It has mainly blue plumage and a dark brown back.
The European roller is a critically endangered species. It spends the winter in Africa, and migrates further north in the sum- mer, seeking cooler areas to mate. Due to the increase of intensive farming here, it has been impacted by the reduction of the number of suitable sites to build its nests. Enel, that operates through Endesa Distribución in the territories where the European roller migrates, decided to assist with the survival of this species by installing artificial nests on the pylons of its electricity network.
The Coracias project, in particular, involves installing new, highly resistant nests, specifically designed for this species, on the electrical pylons inside the protected area of the Aiguamolls de l’Empordà natural park, as well as monitoring the occu- pation of these box-nests, the production rate of fertile birds and the calls of the chicks, using GPS to track tagged adults and data analysis to promote the adoption of targeted measures in the future.
Romania: birdlife conservation on electric lines. 
The falcon is a critically endangered species worldwide, and in Romania is only found in the Banat and Dobrogea regions. It thrives on open fields, with low trees density using electric power lines where it lands to prepare to swoop on its prey.
In the Timis and Arad zones, in collaboration with the environmental association Milvus, E-Distribuție Banat employe- es installed and replaced insulating sleeves on the medium/high voltage electrical lines as well as installing artificial nests for single Saker falcons (Falco cherrug) passing through. This work is part of the European LIFE + Project “Con- servation of the Falco cherrug in North-east Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia”.
More recently a new webcam has been set up, in order to monitor the use of the nest on the pole of a high-voltage line. This camera is fitted with solar panels and transmits high-quality images.
Storks also have a predilection for electric poles when building their beautiful nests, which can be up to 2 m in dia- meter, and arrive in Europe in the spring. Since 2010, Enel workers in Banat, Dobrogea and Muntenia have built over 700 nesting platforms on electric poles and pylons as well as installing safety insulation sleeves on over 4,000 poles.
Much like storks, European rollers migrate to Europe in the spring when the cultivated lands are in full crop and there is an abundance of insects, which is their main diet.
Enel protects the European roller in Romania and in Spain. By 2020, in collaboration with the Milvus environmental association under the European Project LIFE+ “Conservation of the European Roller (Coracias garrulus) in the Carpa- thian Basin”, 600 medium-voltage pylons will be made safe in the nesting areas (https://rollerproject.eu/en/content/ project-actions).


189 Environmental sustainability. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
El Quimbo – restocking of juvenile fish. 
The hydroelectric power plant of El Quimbo continues to invest in its commitments undertaken to benefit local communities.
Traditional artisanal fishing is one of the production activities on the Rio Magdalena. During the construction of the power plant, people involved in this activity have been identified, and a programme to manage both the water and fishing resources was developed.
The outcome of this programme in 2019 saw the introduction of 200,000 juvenile capavin, with Enel initiating the re-stocking of the Magdalena river to relaunch fishing activities for the inhabitants of the El Quimbo basin.
This project involved over 10 years of research to come to fruition, selecting and sourcing the juvenile fish now distributed across El Quimbo today. This was the first project authorised in June 2019 by the National Aquaculture and Fishery Authorities (Autoridad Nacional de Acuicultura y Pesca - AUNAP) to introduce native species into the upper basin of the Magdalena river at the El Quimbo dam. Hence a project with enormous social impact for approximately 200 fishermen from Puerto Seco to. 
La Jagua was launched.
To date, a total of 320,000 juvenile bocachico have repopulated the areas in the Municipalities of Garzón, Gigante and Yaguara of the Huila department, which will total 800,000 fish of the golden species including bocachico, peje and patalo, by 2020.
Other activities. 
Enel X: e-mobility. 
Testament to the extensive commitment to sustainable mobili- ty through the electrification of the circulating vehicles and the resulting savings of CO2 emissions, Enel X has designed the e-mobility Emission Saving tool, using a specific algorithm to calculate the amounts of CO2 saved when an electric or electri- fied vehicle is used compared to a traditional endothermic en- gine. The e-mobility Emission Saving tool is the first algorithm validated by an internationally-recognised certification autho- rity (RINA) for this very purpose. January 2018 to December 2019 saw over 800,000 recharges at Enel X stations across. 
Italy; approximately 10 mil of kWh energy was delivered by the charging stations and electrical vehicle drivers travelled approxi- mately 59 mil km. The kWh distributed from the recharging stations are regularly calculated by the EMM system (Electro. 
Mobility Management Platform), the Enel X digital platform that continuously manages information related to the recharging of electric vehicles across Italy, accessible to both public and pri-


190 Sustainability Report 2019 nes, showing immediately the mitigation of the environmen- tal impacts of the electric lines. The increase in this index over time is due to an increase in the length of overhead and underground cable lines, reducing the quota of bare conduc- tors; with benefits in terms of the resilience of the network, curtailing plant-cutting activities and a drastic reduction in the risk of electrocution for birdlife.
In 2019, the confirmed cable ratio was 60.1%, also due to the significant contribution of the Brazilian companies in Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo. This percentage is in line with the targets set for the next five years.
The reduction of network losses is guaranteed through inter- ventions which also contribute to reducing CO2 emissions.
These actions focus on power plants, and aim, for example, to progressively reduce single-phase electric lines as well as the construction of new electric lines to lighten the load on the pre-existing ones in addition to the use of low-loss tran- sformers. Other actions include boosting the grid by using conductors with a greater cross-section and rephasing primary transformer. Finally, the realisation of new transformer cabins will help reduce the length of the low-voltage lines which are characterised by higher levels of loss. More broadly, optimising the network asset will allow a significant reduction of its losses.
Fuel deposit and movement. 
Storage tanks for liquid fuels (oil and gas with adjacent pi- pelines) and solid fuels (coal and lignite located at dedicated ports) are monitored in terms of resource usage, consump- tion of electrical energy, emissions (air quality), wastewaters and wastes.
Sustainable construction sites. 
From 2013 onwards, the Enel Group launched a report on the main environment performance indicators relating to con- struction sites activities. This category includes activities of various types and scales: from the distribution area’s yards to sites pertaining to thermal plants or the construction of new renewable hydroelectric, wind, solar, geothermal or biomass plants. These activities are subject to significant variations over the years in terms of environmental issues directly managed by the Group. From 2016 onwards, reporting was developed and based on a new model of the sustainable construction site and on the principles of the circular economy which are vate parties. The data is transmitted from the fast (JuicePump) and quick (JuicePole and Pole Station) infrastructures equipped with an internal measuring device and from the connected Jui- ceBoxes installed at home.
The calculation of CO2 saved is a combination of the data on the distance travelled by 100% electric-powered vehicles (BEV) or plug-in hybrids (PHEV) only using electricity and the calculation of the mean consumptions of vehicles from a recent official study by the Milan Polytechnic. The findings compare the kilo- metres that can be travelled with the average emissions from endothermic vehicles circulating in Italy published annually by. 
ISPRA (the Italian Institute for Environmental Protection and. 
Research) net of the CO2 emitted to produce energy based on the national energy mix. To reinforce the algorithm, Enel. 
X converted the amount of CO2 saved from the environment into the number of trees that would have absorbed this same quantity of emissions over a year. The result is measured by the relationship between the quantity of CO2 a tree absorbs (2019 refinement to the 2006 IPCC guidelines for National Greenhou- se Gas inventories) and those of the saved emissions, thereby obtaining the number of equivalent trees which contribute to the “four-wheel forest” which every Enel X client creates by responsible behaviour towards their surrounding environment.
This algorithm was developed in Italy, but was designed to be used in other countries taking into account the average CO2 emissions of the vehicle fleet circulating in the territory (CO2/ km) and the emissions of the national energy mix (CO2/kWh).
The dashboard is available for users on the homepage of the. 
Enel X website; the calculation of the CO2 saved by each indivi- dual recharging session will soon be available on the JuicePass app and on the Recharge Manager portal, dedicated to busi- nesses and public services. Enel X will furthermore introduce a system for viewing the aggregated data related to the emis- sions saved also on the recharging displays of the JuicePole and JuicePump infrastructure. Thanks to recharges, 6,800 t of. 
CO2 have been saved – the equivalent of 379,000 trees. 
Distribution. 
In order to protect the countryside and the whole country,
Global Infrastructure and Networks have adopted specific strategies to mitigate the environmental impacts of building activities related to new networks in addition to upgrades to existing networks.
The cabling ratio is the relationship (in percentages) betwe- en the lengths of the cable lines and the total length of the li-


191 Environmental sustainability. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Environmental disputes 103-2 103-3 307-1. 
At December 31, 2019, there were 177 legal challenges across the whole Group. The main environmental disputes refer to Italy, Latin America and Iberia.
Approximately 70 million euros of fines were imposed on. 
Group companies in 2019, up on the previous year (approxi- mately 12 million euros in 2018). This increase is due to sanctions on Spain, principally on Edistribución Redes Di- gitales, liable for the Gargallá (1994) and Aguilar de Segarra (1998) fires, and Endesa Generación for events in 2007 at the Ascó I nuclear power station.
 applicable to all active sites.
An example of a sustainable construction site is Magdalena. 
II in the State of Tlaxcala, in Mexico. During the construction phase of the 220 MW solar-powered plant, circular economy initiatives were implemented, such as the reuse of the excava- ted soil, the maximization of the recovery of waste products, in addition to the reuse of rainwater. Furthermore, double-sided hetero-junction solar panels were installed to increase energy production, which at the same time reduced soil occupation, thereby mitigating the impact on the landscape.


192 Sustainability Report 2019 102-15. 
SDG ACTIVITIES/TARGETS 2019 RESULTS CATEGORIES. 
Diversity Policy - Monitoring of implementation of the Diversity Policy in the Board of Directors. 
Full compliance with the policy guaranteed1 Board effectiveness. 
Recommendations and best practices - Constant alignment with international prescriptions and best practices in relation to governance. 
Alignment carried out further to the activity of engagement with the main proxy advisors and institutional investors and of the board review in compliance with peer-to-peer review methods. 
Board effectiveness. 
Induction plan - Structured plan of induction of Directors and Statutory Auditors during the mandate. 
Induction programme for Directors and Statutory Auditors aimed at researching the sectors in which the Group operates, the corporate dynamics and the trend of markets and the reference normative framework2. 
Board effectiveness. 
Engagement - Continuous engagement in relation to corporate governance issues with proxy advisors and the main institutional investors. 
Meetings held with the main proxy advisors and institutional investors Business ethics. 
Board review - Execution of the board review with the support of an independent consultant. 
Board review carried out with the support of an independent consultant in accordance with peer-to-peer review methods. 
Board effectiveness 2019 2021 Sound governance Plan. 
Sound governance (1/2) 16 16 16 16 16


193 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix 1 More details are available in the 2019 Report on Corporate Governance. 2 In particular, the initiatives concerned: Sustainable Value Creation, the operations of Enel X, the operations of the Latin America Country and the principles for correct risk management .
2020 2022 Sound governance Plan. 
SDG ACTIVITIES/TARGETS CATEGORIES. 
Diversity Policy - Monitoring of implementation of the Diversity Policy in the Board of Directors Board effectiveness. 
Recommendations and best practices - Constant alignment with international prescriptions and best practices in relation to Governance. 
Board effectiveness. 
Induction plan - Structured plan of induction of Directors and Statutory Auditors during the mandate Board effectiveness. 
Engagement - Adoption of a policy of engagement with the general information of shareholders (and with a special focus on institutional investors) in line with the amendments of the new corporate governance code. 
Business ethics. 
Board review - Execution of the board review with the support of an independent consultant Board effectiveness 16 16 16 16 16


194 Sustainability Report 2019. 
SDG ACTIVITIES/TARGETS 2019 RESULTS CATEGORIES. 
Anti-bribery certification - ISO 37001 anti-bribery management system certification secured for the main Italian companies and extension to cover the Group’s foreign companies. 
Certification secured by the main companies of the Group1 Anti-bribery. 
Business ethics. 
Compliance Program - Continual improvement of the Compliance Program/ Criminal risks prevention models > Continuation of Models updating in foreign companies operating in Chile, Argentina, Colombia, Peru, and Brazil > Compliance program approved in conformity with local legislation on the responsibility of legal entities in Mexico2. 
Business ethics. 
Training - Additional extension of training on Model 231 and Enel Global Compliance Program > Training on Model 231 carried out by means of online course for all employees of the Group’s Italian companies and classroom induction activities > Online course dedicated to the AntiBribery Management System > Online course on Enel Global Compliance Program duly assigned in all Group companies. 
Business ethics. 
Training. 
Due diligence on human rights - Finalisation of the adoption of action plans and constant monitoring of results 94% of total actions adopted Human rights. 
Business ethics 2019 2021 Sound governance Plan. 
Sound governance (2/2) 16 16 16 16 102-15


195 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix 1 While proceeding with the upkeep of certifications already acquired by the companies that started their certification programme in 2017, the certification activity of the main Group companies commenced in 2019, especially in relation to the companies operating in Romania, Peru, Brazil, and Italy. 2 The model preparation activity will subsequently be initiated also in the Group companies operating in Costa Rica.
2020 2022 Sound governance Plan. 
SDG ACTIVITIES/TARGETS CATEGORIES. 
Anti-bribery certification - ISO 37001 anti-bribery management system certification secured for the main Italian companies and extension to cover the Group’s foreign companies. 
Anti-bribery. 
Business ethics. 
Compliance Program - Continual improvement of the Compliance Program/Criminal risks prevention models Business ethics. 
Training - Additional extension of training on Model 231 and Enel Global Compliance Program Business ethics. 
Training. 
Due diligence on human rights - > Carry out the new phase of due diligence on the human rights management system > Perform due diligence of strategic assets in the countries of presence. 
Human rights. 
Business ethics 16 16 16 16 17


196 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Enel is a company listed on the Mercato Telematico Azionario organised and managed by Borsa Italiana SpA since 1999 with the highest number of shareholders out of Italian companies (around 700,000 including retail and institutional investors).
Enel’s corporate structure includes the main international investment funds, insurance companies, pension funds and ethical funds, thanks also to the Company and Group’s adoption of best international practices on transparency and corporate governance. Moreover, at the date of this report, the Enel Group comprises a further 13 companies issuing shares listed on the Argentine, Brazilian, Chilean, Peruvian,
Russian, Spanish and US stock exchanges.
Socially responsible investorsss continue to grow in 2019, holding 10.8% of total shares (10.5% in 2018), equivalent to 14.1% of floating capital (13.7% in 2018).
1 United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRIs).
ss The number does not consider 24 funds for which the investment advisor could not be identified.
Sound governance 43% of total shares are held by PRI1 signatories 33% women in Enel SpA’s Board of Directors 166 reports concerning the Code of Ethics >90% completion of the improvement plans on human rights 102-5 102-18 102-21 102-27 102-43 102-26. 
North America 46.7. 
Geographical allocation of institutional investors. 
UK 13.7. 
Italy 5.8. 
Rest of Europe 26.2. 
Rest of the world 7.6. 
Ownership structure as of December 31, 2019 (%)
Ministry of Economy and Finance 23.6 16.1 60.3. 
Retail investors. 
Institutional investors. 
Sustainability Report At a Glance Performance indicators. 
Annual Report Report on Corporate Governance Remuneration Report


197 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Relations with shareholders and the financial community. 
Since the listing of its shares on the Stock Exchange, Enel has deemed it appropriate to set up corporate structures dedicated to dialogue with institutional investors and with the majority of shareholders. As such, the Company set up: (i) the Investor Relations unit, currently within the Administration, Finance and Control Function; (ii) an area in the. 
Corporate Affairs Unit, which is in turn part of the Legal and Corporate Affairs Function. In this context, Enel maintains dialogue with investors based on the principles of fairness and transparency, in compliance with EU and national regulations on market abuse, as well as in line with international best practices. Among other things, the Investor. 
Relations unit draws up Enel’s “equity story” and organises meetings between the Company’s top management and institutional investors and financial analysts. It also oversees the documentation to be submitted to the latter when disclosing periodic financial data to the market and updating of the Group’s Strategic Plan as part of Capital Markets Day.
This is accompanied by ordinary activities, which include group or individual meetings, conference calls and interaction with financial analysts, with the aim of supporting them in their analysis and, lastly, facilitating the correct assessment of the Company by the financial community. The Investor Relations unit – with the support of the Innovability Function – also discusses environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) issues with investors, topics which can have major financial repercussions in the medium and long term. Moreover, Enel’s website (www.enel.com, “Investors” section) contains economic, financial, environmental, social and governance information and updated data and documents of particular interest, providing a multidisciplinary and integrated vision.
Capital Markets Day 2019. 
Capital Markets Day 2019 has proven to be a sustainable event, in line with the Group’s business model, centred on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Through the Resex Rio Preto-Jacundá REDD+ project, created by the Brazilian company Biofílica, Enel contributed to the conservation of the Amazon rainforest, the largest tropical forest in the world and one of the main sources of oxygen on the planet. This way it has been possible to offset the CO2 emissions caused by the main financial marketing events of the last year. Further details can be found in the “Investors” section of the website www.enel.com 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 132 150 160 169 182 14.1% 13.7% 11.3% 10.5% 10.3% 7.7% 8.0% 8.6% 10.5% 10.8%
No. SRI1 % free float % share capital. 
Socially Responsible Investors (SRI) evolution 1 The figure does not include 24 funds for which the investment advisor could not be identified.


198 Sustainability Report 2019. 
The corporate governance model 102-23 102-24 102-26 102-18 102-19 102-20 102-22 102-32. 
Enel’s corporate governance structure complies with the principles set out in the Corporate Governance Code for listed companiesss, as last amended (edition July 2018), and adopted by the Company, and is inspired by international best practices. The corporate governance system Enel and its Group have adopted is essentially aimed at creating value for shareholders over the long term, taking into account the social importance of the Group’s business operations and the consequent need to adequately consider all the interests involved when conducting them. In accordance with Italian legislation on listed companies, the Company’s organisation includes: > a Board of Directors, which is in charge of the corporate management; > a Board of Auditors, which is responsible for monitoring: (i) the Company’s compliance with the law and bylaws, as well as compliance with proper management principles when carrying out the Company’s activities; (ii) the financial disclosure process and adequacy of the Company’s organisational structure, internal audit 3 Current edition available on the Borsa Italiana website (at https://www. borsaitaliana.it/comitato-corporate-governance/codice/codiceeng2018. en.pdf).
system, and administration and accounting system; (iii) the auditing of the annual and financial statements and independence of the auditing firm; and (iv) lastly, how the rules under the Corporate Governance Code are actually implemented; > the Shareholders’ Meeting, which is responsible for passing resolution – in ordinary or extraordinary sessions – on: (i) the appointment or removal of members of the. 
Board of Directors and Board of Statutory Auditors, as well as their compensation and responsibilities; (ii) the approval of financial statements and allocation of net earnings; (iii) the purchase and sale of treasury shares; (iv) the remuneration policy and its implementation; (v) share-based compensation plans; (vi) amendments to the Company’s bylaws; (vii) merger and demerger oper- ations; (viii) the issue of convertible bonds.
The audit of the accounts is entrusted to a specialised firm enrolled in the relevant registry appointed by the Sharehold- ers’ Meeting, based on a reasoned proposal by the Board of. 
Statutory Auditors.


199 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Board of Directors 102-22 102-23 102-24 102-15 102-18 102-19 102-20 102-26 103-2 103-3 102-27 102-28 102-32 102-33 405-1. 
The Board of Directors was appointed by the Ordinary Share- holders’ Meeting on May 4, 2017 and consists of nine mem- bers. Patrizia Grieco, Francesco Starace, Alfredo Antoniozzi, Al- berto Bianchi, Paola Girdinio and Alberto Pera were drawn from the slate submitted by the shareholder Ministry of the Econo- my and Finance (at that time holding 23.59% of the Company’s share capital) and voted by the majority of the share capital rep- resented at the Meeting (around 49.98% of the voting capital), while Cesare Calari, Anna Chiara Svelto and Angelo Taraborrelli were drawn from the slate submitted by a group of 21 institu- tional investors (at the time holding in the aggregate 1.88% of the Company’s share capital) and voted by the minority of the share capital represented at the Meeting (around 49.43% of the voting capital).
In 2019, the Board of Directors met 14 times, with each meeting lasting on average 2 hours and 45 minutes, with the regular attendance of all directors. It dealt with issues relating to governance, sustainability, the Code of Ethics and. 
Model 231. The Board of Directors set up the following four committees within the Board itself: > the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Commit-
Seniority diversity (% of the total directors) 1-3 financial years 11 78 11 4-6 financial years. 
More than 6 financial years. 
Female 3 6 Male. 
Gender diversity (no.) tee is tasked with assisting the Board of Directors with preliminary functions, both proposing and consultative in nature, in assessments and decision making on the. 
Company and Group’s corporate governance, as well as on sustainability; > the Control and Risk Committee is responsible for support- ing – with adequate preliminary investigations – the Board of Directors’ assessments and decisions relating to the In- ternal Control and Risk Management System, as well as the approval of periodic financial reports; > the Nomination and Compensation Committee is tasked with supporting – with adequate preliminary investiga- tions – the Board of Directors’ assessments and deci- sions on the size and composition of the Board itself, as well as on the remuneration of executive > the Related Parties Committee, which performs the du- ties set out under the relevant Consob regulation and specific Enel procedure for transactions with related par- ties, particularly in relation to the release of a reasoned opinion on relevant individual transactions for the pur- poses of the procedure itself.
Background (no.)
Energy 3 5
2. 
Strategy and finance. 
Engineering. 
Legal 4 1
5. 
Cyber security. 
Expertise in international environments


200 Sustainability Report 2019 fied viewpoints to examine the issues being discussed from different perspectives.
Towards the end of financial year 2019 and during the first two months of 2020, the Board of Directors carried out – with the assistance of a specialised consultancy firm – an evaluation of the size, composition and functioning of the. 
Board itself and its committees (“board review”), in line with the most advanced corporate governance practices followed abroad and adopted under the Corporate Govern- ance Code. The assessment was carried out according to the “peer-to-peer review” method, i.e. by evaluating not only the functioning of the body as a whole, but also the style and content of the contribution made by each director. As part of this board review, the questionnaires and interviews regarded – among other things – the adoption of sustain- ability principles into the Company and Group’s strategies and business model, together with the focus of the Board of. 
Directors on issues of sustainability.
In 2019, the Company also organised a dedicated induction programme to give directors adequate knowledge of the. 
Group’s business activities, as well as its corporate dynamics and their evolution, market trends and legal framework; Stat- utory Auditors also took part in this programme. Initiatives in 2019 included the creation of sustainable value (referring, among others, to the Enel Group’s 2019-2021 Sustainabili- ty Plan and the positioning of the Group companies in the main sustainability indices), the activities and strategies of the Enel X Global Business Line, as well as in-depth meet- ings dedicated to Latin America Region and the principles of correct risk management.
With regard to succession plans for executive directors, in. 
September 2016, the Board of Directors – upon the proposal of the Nomination and Compensation Committee, together with the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Commit- tee – shared the contents of a specific “contingency plan” aimed at regulating the steps to be taken to ensure the. 
Company’s proper management in the event that the Chief. 
Executive Officer ceases to hold office before the end of his/ her ordinary term (so-called “crisis management” case).
In January 2018, the Board of Directors, upon the proposal of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee and of the Nomination and Compensation Committee, in im- plementation of the provisions of the Italian Consolidated. 
Financial Act, approved a Diversity Policy, which describes the optimal features of the composition of the Board itself, in order for it to exercise its functions in the most effective way, taking decisions with the contribution of multiple quali-
Age diversity1 (no.) 46-56 1 6
2 57-67 68-71 1 In line with the Global Reporting Initiative, the 9 members of the Board of Directors all belong to the over 50 age group.


201 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
The Board’s further activities during 2019 and the first months of 2020 include the following: > in March 2019 and lastly in February 2020, after hearing the Nomination and Compensation Committee and the. 
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee, the Board of Directors updated the specific corporate policy on the maximum number of offices that Enel’s directors may hold as directors and/or statutory auditors (or equivalent) of other companies of a significant size, so as to adapt their contents to the relevant best prac- tices developed by the main proxy advisors and institu- tional investors; > at the end of the board review for the financial year 2019, and in line with the Corporate Governance Code’s recommendations, in February 2020, after hearing the. 
Nomination and Compensation Committee and the Cor-
Remuneration policy 102-28 102-35 102-36 102-37 porate Governance and Sustainability Committee, the. 
Board of Directors supplied Enel’s shareholders with its guidelines on the optimal qualitative and quantitative composition of the Board of Directors, summarised in a specific document promptly published on the Compa- ny’s website in view of the Meeting called to elect the. 
Board itself; > in February 2020, the Board analysed the contents of the new Italian Corporate Governance Code published on January 31, 2020 which shall be applicable starting from the beginning of financial year 2021.
Further details on the corporate governance system can be found in the Report on Corporate Governance and Owner- ship Structure for the 2019 financial year, available on the. 
Company website (www.enel.com).
Enel’s 2019 remuneration policy, adopted by the Board of Directors on the proposal of the Nomination and. 
Compensation Committee was widely welcomed by the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2019.
It has been drawn up taking account of the best national and international practices and the indications arising from the favourable vote of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2018 on the 2018 remuneration policy. The policy also takes into account the results of the Company’s engagement on corporate governance issues between December 2018 and. 
February 2019 with the main proxy advisors and institutional investors present in Enel’s share capital. In line with the recommendations contained in the Corporate Governance. 
Code for listed companies, Enel’s remuneration policy for 2019 is aimed at attracting, motivating and retaining the resources with the most suitable professional qualities to successfully manage the Company. Moreover, the policy aims to encourage the achievement of the Company’s strategic targets and sustainable growth, as well as align the interests of management with the priority target of creating sustainable value for shareholders in the medium to long term. It also serves to promote the Company’s mission and values.
The remuneration policy adopted for the financial year 2019 sets out for the Chief Executive Officer and General Manager and for executives with strategic responsibilities (referred to as DRS - Dirigenti con Responsabilità Strategiche): > a fixed component; > a short-term variable component (MBO) to be recognised based on the achievement of specific performance targets. Specifically, the following short-term targets are set out for the Chief Executive Officer: Ordinary consolidated net income; Funds from operations/
Consolidated net financial debt; Group Opex; Safety in the workplace. For DRSs, specific and objective annual targets are set out, linked to the reference business, and differentiated according to the assigned roles and responsibilities; > a long-term variable remuneration linked to the participation in specific multi-annual incentive plans. In particular, for 2019, the long-term variable remuneration is linked to participation in the 2019 Long-Term Incentive. 
Plan (“2019 LTI Plan”), which provides for the following three-year performance targets: Enel’s Average Total. 
Shareholder Return (TSR) compared to the average TSR


202 Sustainability Report 2019. 
The Internal Control and Risk Management System (“SCIGR”) consists of the set of rules, procedures, and organisational entities aimed at allowing the main corporate risks within the Group to be identified, measured, managed and monitored.
The SCIGR is integrated into the more general organisational and corporate governance structures adopted by the Company and by the Group and is based on national and international best practices. In particular, the system takes into account the recommendations of the Corporate Governance Code and is consistent with the “Internal Controls – Integrated. 
Framework” model issued by the Committee of Sponsoring. 
Organisations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO. 
Report”) – the internationally recognised benchmark for the analysis and integrated assessment of the SCIGR’s effectiveness.
Specifically, the SCIGR: > sets out control actions at every operating level and clearly identifies duties and responsibilities, so as to avoid duplications of tasks and ensure coordination among the main persons involved in the SCIGR itself; of the EUROSTOXX Utilities - EMU index in the three- year period 2019-2021; ROACE (Return on Average. 
Capital Employed) cumulative for the three-year period 2019-2021; CO2 emissions from the Enel Group’s power plants in 2021.
The 2019 LTI Plan also provides that any premium accrued is represented by a share component, to which a monetary component can be added based on the level of achievement of the various targets. In particular, it is envisaged that 100% of the basic premium of the Chief Executive Officer and General Manager and 50% of the basic premium of the DRSs will be paid in Enel shares, previously acquired by the Company. The disbursement of a significant portion of the long-term variable remuneration (equal to 70% of. 
Internal Control and Risk Management System the total) is deferred to the second financial year after the relevant three-year period referred to in the 2019 LTI Plan (i.e.
deferred payment).
The 2019 LTI Plan sets a target for CO2 emissions (grams per kWh equivalent produced by the Group in 2021) and, as part of the Chief Executive Officer and General Manager’s short- term variable remuneration plan, a target linked to safety in the workplace with the aim of promoting the application of a sustainable business model.
A detailed description of the remuneration policy for 2019 and compensations paid in 2018 is provided in the 2019. 
Remuneration Report available on the Company website (www.enel.com).
> ensures the necessary separation of operating and control activities, so as to prevent or – where that is not possible – mitigate conflicts of interest; > guarantees the traceability of the tasks of identifying, assessing, managing, and monitoring risks, ensuring the reconstruction of the sources over time and the information that supports these tasks.
The SCIGR is divided into three distinct types of activities: > “line” or “first level” controls, consisting of all control tasks that the individual operating units or Group companies perform on their processes in order to ensure that operations are carried out properly; > “second level” controls, which are entrusted to specific corporate Functions and aimed at managing and monitoring typical risk categories; > internal audit activity (“third level” controls) aimed at checking the structure and overall functionality of the. 
SCIGR, including by monitoring the “line” and “second level” controls.
The SCIGR is subject to periodical tests and checks, taking into account the evolution of corporate operations and the 102-15 102-25 102-28 103-3 201-2 102-29 102-30 103-2 102-11


203 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix situation in question, as well as current best practices at national and international level.
The various risk types are included in the paragraph “Setting priorities” and in the 2019 Annual Report, available on the. 
Company website (www.enel.com).
For a detailed description of the tasks and responsibilities of the main individuals involved in the SCIGR, as well as their respective coordination procedures, refer to the Guidelines of the Internal Control and Risk Management System available on the Company website (www.enel.com, “Investors” section).
Main ESG risk types. 
Due to the nature of its business and geographic presence, the Group is exposed to various types of environmental, social and governance-related (ESG) risks, of which the main types are indicated in the table below, together with the activities for mitigating their effects and ensuring their proper management.
The following was considered in identifying potential risks: > the results of the materiality analysis (see the section “At a. 
Glance” - “Definition of priorities” and the Methodological note in this document); > the 2020 Global Risk Report of the World Economic Forum (WEF), involving more than 1,000 experts and leaders from around the world; · the risk assessment carried out as part of Enel’s due diligence process on human rights, which involved a wide range of experts from different sectors, including civil society, academic institutions, local communities, customers and suppliers, in the various countries where the Group operates; > the analyses of some of the world’s most highly acclaimed ESG rating agencies, which use specific risk assessment systems to rate companies’ sustainability performance.
The risks identification from the analysis of these results, which gather the level of risk perceived by the relevant external stakeholders, is aligned with the overall identification of the risks carried out by Enel to select the main risks (financial, strategic, governance, operational, digital and compliance) to which it may be exposed and which require continuous monitoring through the internal auditing process.
Moreover, in the risk identification and assessment stage, the “Precautionary Principle”4 was applied, particularly to risks relating to the environment, health and safety. For each type of risk, specific actions have been identified to mitigate their effects and ensure their proper management. Enel also applies this principle to risk management, especially with regard to the development and introduction of new products/technologies, planning of operating activities and the construction of new plants/assets.
ss Rio Declaration on the Environment and Development (Rio de Janeiro, June 3-14, 1992), Principle 15.


204 Sustainability Report 2019. 
ESG RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES AND MITIGATION ACTIONS. 
Environmental aspects. 
Climate risks Physical risks arising from climate change can be classified as acute (i.e. extreme events) and chronic: the former are linked to extremely intense weather-climatic conditions, while the latter refers to gradual but structural changes in climatic conditions. Extreme events may expose the Group to a potential unavailability of assets and infrastructures, restoration costs, and inconvenience for customers, etc. Chronic changes in climatic conditions, on the other hand, may expose the Group to other physical risks or opportunities (depending on the geographical location): for example, structural rainfall or wind changes could impact the Group’s business in terms of generation, while structural temperature changes could have an impact on electricity demand. With regard to the energy transition process moving towards a more sustainable model with a progressive electrification and reduction in CO2, emissions, in line with the Group’s strategy for carbon neutrality by 2050, there are risks, but above all opportunities, tied to the changing regulatory context, technological and electrification trends, and resulting market developments, with potential effects also on commodities and energy prices.
The Group is committed to making continuous improvements to the environmental impact of its activities. It has constantly improved its emissions reduction targets, certifying a target with the SBTi in 2019 for 125 g/kWh of CO2 by 2030, heading for “zero emission generation” by 2050. For the Group’s strategy, the decarbonization and electrification of consumption are two key pillars: considering also the enablers of digital platforms and ecosystems and infrastructures for the energy transition, the Group is dedicating around 95% of the total investments planned for the 2020-2022 period to climate actions. The Group’s strategic actions make it possible to mitigate the potential risks and grasp the opportunities provided by transition variables. Enel participates in the entire electricity value chain and has a diversified portfolio of activities, both in terms of generation technologies and the geographical areas and markets where it operates, mitigating climate change risks and their economic and financial impacts. Weather and climate phenomena management adopts the best strategies for prevention, protection and boosting resilience, while also carrying out weather forecasting activities. Moreover, best practices are implemented on physical events to ensure a prompt recovery of operating conditions in the event of adverse events. In terms of insurance risk assessment activities, the Group manages a loss prevention programme for property risks, which also serves to assess the main exposures linked to natural events. All areas of the Group are subject to the ISO 14001 certification and, by applying internationally recognised Environmental Management Systems (EMSs), potential sources of risk are monitored so that any critical issue may be promptly identified. The Group develops short-, medium- and long-term scenarios in the energy and the financial macroeconomic sectors in order to support its strategic and industrial planning, investment valuation, scenario planning and extraordinary transactions. By gradually integrating climate and transition scenarios, combined with the development of energy system models at country level, it is possible to intercept the effects on variables such as electricity demand, the system energy mix and the electrification of consumption. These activities make it possible to identify and assess related risks and opportunities. Further information on how this risk is managed can be found in the chapter “Commitment to the fight against climate change”.


205 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
ESG RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES AND MITIGATION ACTIONS. 
Environmental aspects. 
Environmental risks Last year saw the continuation of the growth in the sensitivity of the entire community to risks connected with development models that generate environmental impacts and exploit scarce natural resources (including many raw materials and water). In some cases, the synergistic effects between these impacts – such as global warming and the growing exploitation and degradation of water resources – increase the risk of environmental emergencies arising in the most sensitive areas of the planet, with the risk of various water resource uses having to compete, such as industrial, agricultural and civil uses. In response to these needs, governments have imposed increasingly restrictive environmental regulations, placing ever more stringent constraints on the development of new industrial initiatives and, in the most impactful industries, incentivizing or requiring the elimination of technologies no longer considered sustainable. In this context, companies in every sector, and above all industry leaders, are ever more aware that environmental risks are increasingly economic risks. As a result, they are called upon to increase their commitment and accountability for developing and adopting innovative and sustainable technical solutions and development models.
Enel has made the effective prevention and minimization of environmental impacts and risks a foundational element of each project across its entire life cycle. The adoption of ISO 14001-certified environmental management systems certified in all Group divisions ensure the implementation of structured policies and procedures to identify and manage the environmental risks and opportunities associated with all corporate activities. Also contributing are the multitude of actions to achieve the challenging environmental improvement objectives set by Enel, such as, for example, those regarding atmospheric emissions, waste production and water consumption, especially in areas with high water stress. The risk of water scarcity is directly mitigated by Enel’s development strategy, which is based on the growth of generation from renewable sources that are essentially not dependent on the availability of water for their operation. Special attention is also devoted to assets in areas with a high level of water stress, in order to develop technological solutions to reduce consumption. Finally, ongoing collaboration with local river basin management authorities enables us to adopt the most effective shared strategies for the sustainable management of hydroelectric generation assets. Further information on how this risk is managed can be found in the chapter “Environmental sustainability”.
Social dimension. 
Risks linked to human capital The profound transformations of the energy sector, which has experienced sweeping technological developments, require the presence of new professional profiles and skills, as well as an important cultural and organizational change. Organizations must move to adopt new agile and flexible business models. Policies to enhance diversity and to manage and promote talent have become key factors for companies that are managing the transition and have a widespread geographical presence.
Enel places the people who work for it at the centre of its business model: the management of human capital is a priority for which specific objectives have been established. The main goals include: the development of the digital capabilities and skills made necessary by the Fourth Industrial Revolution, as well as the promotion of reskilling and upskilling programs for employees in order to support the energy transition; the effective involvement of employees in the pursuit of the corporate purpose, which ensures the achievement of better results while offering greater satisfaction to our people; the development of systems for evaluating the working environment and performance; the dissemination of diversity and inclusion policies to all countries in which the Group operates, as well as instilling an inclusive organizational culture based on the principles of non-discrimination and equal opportunity, a key driver in ensuring that everyone can make an effective contribution. In addition, Enel is developing specific initiatives to foster the diffusion of agile working methods in business processes. Further information on how this risk is managed can be found in the chapter “Our people and their value”.


206 Sustainability Report 2019. 
ESG RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES AND MITIGATION ACTIONS. 
Social dimension. 
Risks linked to occupational health and safety. 
The main health and safety risks for Enel staff and contracting companies are associated with the operating activities carried out at the Group’s sites and assets. These risks were identified through an analysis of the main events occurring in the past three years. In terms of probability of occurrence, mechanical risks (falls, knocks, crushing and cuts) are the most significant, whilst in terms of associated impact, electrical risks are those with the most serious consequences (fatalities). Moreover, as a result of the Group’s global presence and globalisation of the company, employees and contractors may be exposed to risks relating to emerging infectious diseases, following an epidemic and potentially a pandemic, which may affect their health and well-being.
Enel has adopted a Declaration of Commitment to Health and Safety, signed by the Group’s top management. To implement the Policy, each of the Group’s Business Lines has its own Occupational Health & Safety Management System in compliance with international standard BS OHSAS 18001, based on identifying hazards, qualitative and quantitative risk assessment, planning and implementing preventive and protective measures, verifying the effectiveness of preventive and protective measures, and any corrective actions to be undertaken. This system also considers the rigorous selection and management of contractors and vendors, promoting their involvement in continuous safety performance improvement programmes. The Enel Group has defined a structured health management system based on preventive measures, to develop a corporate culture oriented towards the promotion of mental-physical health, organisational well-being and balance between the professional and personal spheres. Furthermore, Enel has implemented a specific policy on the management of critical events, which includes creating specific task forces and guidelines in the event of global health emergencies. This serves to direct, integrate and monitor, both at Group and local level, all prevention and intervention actions to protect the health of its employees and contractors. Further information on how this risk is managed can be found in the chapter “Occupational health and safety”.
Risks linked to local communities’ engagement. 
Enel currently operates in a vast geographical area, with a presence in over 30 countries and five continents. It conducts business activities that require the development of infrastructure in local areas, which in some cases can cause either criticism or partial acceptance. In turn, Enel may be exposed to reputational and operational risks due to delays in the execution of projects for new sites or risk that may affect the operational continuity of existing sites. On the other hand, Enel’s commitment to decarbonize its energy mix – with a particular focus on the coal mining phase – could have a potential negative impact in local areas which are heavily dependent on coal operations (extraction and energy generation) in terms of job losses and socio-economic development. This could ultimately expose Enel to reputational risks or even delay the Group’s achievement of the decarbonization goals set out in its Strategic Plan.
A Creating Shared Value (CSV) model has been in force since 2015, which integrates social and environmental factors into company processes and across the entire value chain, particularly in relation to business development, engineering and construction operations, asset management and maintenance, and disposals. Through this model, the Group engages proactively with local communities to identify their main needs, which are then integrated into structured action plans, with constant monitoring of their implementation. Moreover, Enel promotes an inclusive energy transition by way of improvement actions both globally (including public commitments and awareness raising) and at local level, such as the Futur-e programme unrolled in Italy and Spain to find sustainable solutions (mainly focusing on employment and the development of economic activities) for the areas affected by the shift away from coal. Further information on how this risk is managed can be found in the chapter “Communities and value sharing”.


207 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
ESG RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES AND MITIGATION ACTIONS. 
Business and governance dimension. 
Risks linked to business continuity. 
Enel may be exposed to the risk of judicial or administrative sanctions, economic or financial losses, or reputational damage as a result of a partial or total interruption of commercial operations, technical failures, malfunctions of goods and plants, human errors, sabotage, unavailability of raw materials or adverse weather events, or any emerging infectious diseases resulting in a potential epidemic or pandemic that may impede the normal functioning of the Group’s activities or supply chain.
Enel has systems and mechanisms to guarantee a continuous and safe energy supply to the national electrical systems of the countries in which it operates. Therefore, Enel is constantly working to develop and improve the efficiency of the distribution network, in coordination with the other entities operating on the network infrastructure for various reasons. Enel is carrying out maintenance on and modernising the network of existing infrastructures in all countries, with the main aim of reducing the number and duration of interruptions to service. Enel is also constantly adopting operational efficiency and safety measures to ensure the correct functioning of all its power plants. Lastly, the Group’s assets are covered by adequate insurance mechanisms to protect the Company from potential negative economic consequences resulting from future, uncertain events. Moreover, particularly in relation to the management of critical events, Enel has drawn up a policy to ensure the effectiveness of the decision-making process when managing any event that could compromise the continuity of the public service and the Company’s activity, including global health emergencies. Enel is implementing appropriate protocols, plans and actions to ensure the smooth running of its economic activity all over the world or – where necessary – its rapid recovery in the event of an interruption to service.
Risks connected with cyber attacks. 
The speed of technological developments that constantly generate new challenges, the ever increasing frequency and intensity of cyber attacks and the attraction of critical infrastructures and strategic industrial sectors as targets underscore the potential risk that, in extreme cases, the normal operations of companies could grind to a halt. Cyber attacks have evolved dramatically in recent years: their number has grown exponentially, as has their complexity and impact, making it increasingly difficult to promptly identify the source of threats. In the case of the Enel Group, this exposure reflects the many environments in which it operates (data, industry and people), a circumstance that accompanies the intrinsic complexity and interconnection of the resources that over the years have been increasingly integrated into the Group’s daily operating processes.
The Group has adopted a holistic governance approach to cyber security that is applied to all the sectors of IT (Information Technology), OT (Operational Technology) and IoT (Internet of Things). The framework is based on the commitment of top management, on global strategic management, on the involvement of all business areas as well as on the units involved in the design and management of our systems. It seeks to use cutting edge technologies, to design ad hoc business processes, to strengthen people’s IT awareness and to implement regulatory requirements for IT security. In addition, the Group has developed an IT risk management methodology founded on “risk-based” and “cyber security by design” approaches, making business risk analysis the fundamental step in all strategic decisions. Enel has also created its own Cyber Emergency Readiness Team (CERT) in order to proactively respond to any IT security incidents. Finally, in 2019, the Group also took out an insurance policy for cyber security risks in order to mitigate IT threats Further information on how this risk is managed can be found in the chapter “Innovation and digitalization”.


208 Sustainability Report 2019. 
ESG RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES AND MITIGATION ACTIONS. 
Business and governance dimension. 
Risks connected with digitalization, IT effectiveness and service continuity. 
The Group is carrying out a complete digital transformation of how it manages the entire energy value chain, developing new business models and digitalizing its business processes. A consequence of this digital transformation is that the Group is increasingly exposed to risks related to the functioning of the IT systems implemented throughout the Company, which could lead to service interruptions or data losses.
These risks are managed using a series of internal measures developed by the Global Digital Solutions (GDS) unit, which is responsible for guiding the Group’s digital transformation. It has set up an internal control system that introduces control points along the entire IT value chain, enabling it to prevent the emergence of risks relating to such issues as the creation of services that do not meet business needs, the failure to implement adequate security measures and service interruptions. The internal control system of the Global Digital Solutions unit oversees both the activities performed in-house and those outsourced to external associates and service providers. Furthermore, Enel is promoting the dissemination of a digital culture and digital skills within the Group in order to successfully guide the digital transformation and minimize the associated risks. Further information on how this risk is managed can be found in the chapter “Innovation and digitalization”.
Risks connected with the protection of personal data. 
The collection and processing of personal data represents one of the biggest challenges in the era of digitalization and globalization of markets. The Group has taken up this challenge by accelerating the digital transformation process while it is experiencing an important stage of global growth in terms of number of customers and geographical areas. This implies an exposure to the risks connected with the protection of personal data, an issue that must also take account of the substantial growth in privacy legislation, whose inappropriate implementation can cause economic or financial losses and reputational harm.
In order to manage and mitigate this risk, Enel has adopted a structure aimed at guaranteeing that protection of personal data, relating to all persons with whom it interacts, is fully ensured. This due to the appointment of Data Protection Officers (“DPOs”), who are responsible for supporting the business areas in the adoption of a “privacy by design” approach, in which the protection of personal data a key element of the design of any initiative or business process. Further information on how this risk is managed can be found in the chapter “Sound governance”.
Compliance risks Enel may be exposed to the risk of judicial measures or administrative sanctions, economic or financial losses and reputational damage as a result of: > unlawful conduct, including acts of corruption, by internal staff to obtain an unfair or unlawful benefit. External staff of suppliers of Enel Group companies, commit to comply with the ethical clauses set out in their respective contracts, which refer to Enel’s commitment to business integrity in conducting its activities; > the violation of international or national laws relating to antitrust, market disclosures, financial, tax or other applicable legislation (such as permitting, purchasing rules, electricity market regulation).
Enel has adopted an Internal Control and Risk Management System set out in the company rules and procedures which all those who work at Enel or for Enel are required to follow through their respective contractual commitments. The Internal Control System also includes specific compliance programs, such as: the Code of Ethics, the Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan (“ZTC Plan”), the Human Rights Policy, the Enel Global Compliance Program (“EGCP”), the Model pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/01 and other national compliance programmes adopted by the Group companies in compliance with national regulations (for example, in Spain, Chile, Brazil, Colombia, Peru, Argentina and Mexico). Furthermore, to further pursue its commitment to fighting corruption, Enel voluntarily decided to certify its Anti-Bribery Management System (SGPC) in compliance with the requirements of international standard ISO 37001:2016 on anti-bribery management systems. This certification process involved the Group’s main foreign subsidiaries. The ongoing monitoring of regulatory developments at national and international level is ensured thanks to the operations of the relevant company Functions. Further information on how this risk is managed can be found in the chapter “Sound governance”.


209 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix


210 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Counterparty analysis. 
By analysing counterparties, an assessment is made of potential reputational risks to the Company after entering into and/or continuing business relations or collaborations with third parties (suppliers, business partners, etc.). In December 2016, the first edition of the operating instructions of counterparty analysis was completed, thereby promoting common criteria to carry out activities and standardise the models used to acquire the requests and the deliver the assessment to the other units. In 2017, all the major countries adopted the operating instructions, in some cases by issuing a local-level document and entering into specific country-level contracts..
The Group’s corporate governance system. 
The corporate governance system Enel SpA (“Enel”) and its. 
Group have adopted is essentially aimed at creating value for shareholders over the long term, taking into account the social importance of the Group’s business operations and the consequent need, in conducting such operations, to adequately consider all the interests involved.
Following the significant growth in size at international level, the Enel Group currently has 14 companies with shares listed on the Argentine, Brazilian, Chilean, Italian, Peruvian,
Russian, Spanish and US stocks exchanges. In this regard, it stands as a unique business on the global scene, which is characterised by complex management due to the presence of various types of minority shareholders, the need to carry out intra-group transactions and a lack of a clear and uniform legal framework for groups multinationals.
Since the Group’s restructuring in 2014, it has had the opportunity to strengthen the corporate governance and ensure the dissemination of best practices in this area across all Enel Group companies with shares listed on regulated markets, in compliance with the management autonomy of the various companies involved and their applicable local regulations.
As such, Enel’s Board of Directors approved in 2015 (and integrated in 2019) several Recommendations aimed at strengthening these companies’ corporate governance and ensuring that all such companies comply with the relevant local best practices on this subject.
The Enel Group’s Corporate governance Recommendation for listed companies relate to: > the composition of the management body, which must ensure the correct size, the representation of any minority shareholders and adequate diversity in terms of the experience and professional-managerial skills of its members, including in terms of gender, age and tenure; > the requirements of the members of the management body. In particular, when selecting candidates for the position of Chief Executive Officer, it is necessary to identify profiles with the appropriate leadership for the role, assessed on the basis of his/her reputation, of the results achieved in previously held executive roles and on his/her recognition in key markets. On the other hand, when selecting candidates for the role of independent member, it is recommended that the competent function call upon a head-hunting firm, which will apply the criteria specified in the Recommendations, in order to strengthen the effectiveness and impartiality of the selection process; > Directors’ remuneration. For remuneration paid to Enel. 
Group’s employees, it is required that employees waive or credit back to the company with which they have entered into an employment contract any compensation due for their participation to the management body, except where they are called upon to take up executive roles. The remuneration of the members of the management body who are not employees of the Enel. 
Group shall be established taking into account, the assigned role and responsibilities , as well as additional factors including the results of the benchmark analysis of the relevant market conducted by a specialised company, as well as Enel Group policies;


211 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix > the board review, coordinated by the Chair, which is recommended to be performed annually with the support – at least every three years – of an independent and specialized advisor; > the directors’ induction, coordinated by the Chair, serves to provide them with adequate knowledge of – among other things – the sector where the company operates, the company’s business, the organisational structures, as well as changes to the legal and regulatory framework; > the management of inside information, with a recommendation to adopt both corporate procedures to prevent misuse of said information, as well as a register of individuals who have access to the data itself; > compliance with the reference markets’ corporate governance codes and best practices, except in cases where – in the opinion of the management body, there are objective reasons justifying non-compliance or partial compliance.
The Recommendations in question are available on the Enel website and have been implemented by the relevant bodies of the target companies in the course of 2016.
Subsequently, in 2017, a project was launched involving. 
Corporate Affairs managers from the Group’s major listed companies, supported by renowned academic experts in the area of corporate governance. This project helped identify, at the end of an in-depth comparative analysis, shared solutions for the approval of intercompany transactions, applicable across the Enel Group, within the limitations of the regulations of the various countries where the Group operates.
This has given rise to the dedicated Corporate Governance. 
Guidelines, which preliminarily identify the principles underpinning the Group’s corporate governance and impose precise common principles to be applied in relation to conflicts of interests of directors and transactions with related parties.
It should be noted that these Guidelines go over and above the controversial notion of “group interest”, the existence of which is brought into question in various systems, while at the same time providing a clear definition of corporate interest as a useful benchmark for the management of both directors’ conflicts of interest and transactions with related parties.
Having been approved by Enel’s Board of Directors in 2017, the Guidelines were adopted in 2018 by the competent governing bodies of the listed subsidiaries. Moreover, they have been presented during an international seminar on multinational groups held in Madrid in October 2018, attended by the representatives of the supervisory authorities of the financial markets where the most relevant subsidiaries are listed and by leading academics. The Guidelines are also available on the Enel website.
Completing the Group’s corporate governance system: > the Group’s Code of Ethics, approved by Enel’s Board of Directors in 2002 and subsequently updated, which sets out the reference values which guide the Group in carrying out various activities, regulating and harmonizing corporate behaviour in accordance with standards based on maximum transparency and integrity towards all stakeholders; > the “Enel Global Compliance Program” approved in 2016 and that aims to step up the Enel Group’s commitment to preventing offences from being committed abroad that might generate corporate criminal liability and the related reputational risks; > the Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan - ZTC, adopted in 2006 to give substance to Enel’s adherence to the. 
UN Global Compact and to the Partnership Against. 
Corruption Initiative (PACI); > the Human Rights Policy adopted in 2013 and activities for achieving and/or maintaining the ISO 37001:2016 certification (“Anti-Bribery Management System”) by the main Group companies.
Lastly, between the end of 2019 and beginning of 2020, Enel made a further in-depth analysis of the corporate governance of the Group’s listed companies with higher capitalisation and/or free float, with the support of a qualified advisor that operates internationally.
This analysis was carried out in light of the Enel Group’s corporate governance reference modelss, as well as the recommendations of local corporate governance codes and market practices of the countries where the various companies in question operate. The analysis made it possible to identify and add value to several best practices specific to each of the companies concerned. At the same time, it also drew a path towards achieving an ever-greater convergence of these companies towards the Enel Group’s corporate governance reference model. The overall structure of the project in question is described in the graphs shown in the following page, indicating the companies involved.
ss This model is based on the parent company’s corporate governance system, on the corporate governance recommendations of the Enel Group’s listed companies, as well as on several international best practices relating to the composition and functioning of the Board of Directors.


212 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Convergence process. 
Analysis for each company: · Local Code of Corporate Governance · Local common market practices · Company’s current corporate governance structure. 
Group Corporate Governance reference model. 
International best practices on boards. 
Endesa. 
Enel Russia. 
Enel Chile. 
Enel Distribución Perú
Enel Generación Perú
Enel Américas. 
Enel Ceará-Coelce 1. 
The Board 10. 
Beyond the Boardroom 9. 
Measuring performance 8
“When things go wrong” 7. 
Managing the meetings 6. 
Board Committees 2. 
Board Composition 3. 
Induction and Education 4. 
Board Leadership 5. 
Succession Planning. 
Group corporate governance reference model. 
Valorization of best practices of each company. 
Recommendations on corporate governance of Enel Group’s listed. 
Enel SpA corporate governance system. 
Progressive implementation of necessary actions


213 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
The Enel Group’s corporate governance reference model – based on the parent company’s corporate governance system, on the corporate governance Recommendations of the Enel Group’s listed companies, as well as on several international best practices relating to the composition and functioning of the Board of Directors (“Board”) – is structured into the following 10 principles:
The Board: consideration of the interests of all stakeholders and not only those of shareholders; long-term vision and shared understanding of the corporate culture and its purpose; a clear distinction of roles between the administrative board and top management; deep understanding of the company’s business and reference market; positive atmosphere, trust and a working environment based on listening.
Board Composition: an appropriate board composition that brings out synergy of individual skills and experience; the ideal size of the Board varies from 7 to 11 members, based on the committees to be set up; sufficient diversity of gender, geographic origin, age and tenure; appropriate presence of truly independent directors, over and above compliance with formal criteria, which is especially key in the case of companies subject to management and coordination; adequate time availability of directors in line with an ad hoc policy on the maximum number of other offices they may hold.
Induction and Education: implementation of an onboarding programme for newly appointed directors, together with systematic training plans over the course of their term, addressing strategic, business, risk management, legal and sustainability issues.
Board Leadership: the key role of the Chair in managing the functioning of the Board, ensuring the conscious and active participation of each member in the proceedings; separation of the roles of Chair and CEO, ensuring that their respective responsibilities are complementary and do not overlap; presence of a Senior Independent Director where necessary.
Succession Planning: to safeguard the company’s continuity, the Board oversees contingency plans to ensure the roles of Chair and CEO are suitably and continually held; verification of the presence and effectiveness of top management’s succession plans.
Board Committees: through their preliminary, proactive and consultative activities on various delicate issues, the Committees provide key support to the Board’s activity, without prejudice to the Board’s decision-making prerogatives on these subjects; opportunities for a broad presence of independent directors in committees; clear division of roles between the committees and effective communication between them and the Board; progressive focus of a committee on sustainability issues.
Managing the meetings: at least 9 formal Board meetings per year, supplemented – where possible – with informal meetings between directors; proper balancing between comprehensive Board documentation and summaries of the main topics, with appropriate advance notice given to directors; participation of first-line management in relation to the issues addressed.
“When things go wrong”: mapping of potential, exogenous or endogenous, crisis situations, assessing the risks involved and preparing mitigation measures. In the event of actual crisis situations, fast proportionate and reactive interventions accompanied by communicative transparency in relation to their content.
Measuring performance: systematic measurement of the Board’s performance as a whole and each individual director’s contribution; aligning the compensation of non-executive directors with the actual commitment required.
. Beyond the Boardroom: clear communication of specific commitments on sustainability issues; transparent and timely reporting on the results achieved. Alignment of the Board culture with the company’s strategy. Enel’s strategy based on the creation of sustainable value in the long term, taking into account the interests of various stakeholder, integrating environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors across the whole value chain.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.


214 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Enel’s presence in the main energy and sustainability associations 102-12 102-13. 
The Enel Group plays an active role in associations and sus- tainability organisations, at both national and international level, which set long-term goals and commitments to pro- mote a sustainable way of doing business and to manage the challenges of climate change and socio-economic pres- sures affecting the macroeconomic environment, particular- ly in the energy sector. Below are some examples.
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) - Enel has been a “Participant” member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2004 and is one of its 2019 LEAD companies.
This group of companies represents the participants most involved in the initiative, thanks to their commitment and adherence to the 10 founding principles on human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. In 2019, Enel also demonstrated its com- mitment by taking part in the Action Platforms “Financial In- novation for SDGs”, “Pathways to Low-Carbon and Resilient. 
Development”, “Reporting on the SDGs” and “Peace, Jus- tice & Strong Institution”, as well as submitting an advanced. 
Communication on Progress (CoP).
The Group’s leadership – resulting in a strategy and actions based on the above principles to achieve the SDGs – also gave Enel the opportunity to be part of the UN Global Com- pact Expert Network, an advisory group which provides an essential strategic contribution to defining the organisation’s planning priorities and agenda. Moreover, Enel’s CEO is a member of the Global Compact Board and is currently in his second term (2018-2021). He has therefore renewed his commitment to supporting the sustainability initiative which has been ongoing since 2015, when he was appointed for his first term.
In 2019, in light of the key importance of climate change at international level, the Group was among the first 28 signa- tories of the Business Ambition for 1.5 °C Pledge, where- by it committed to limiting global temperature rise to 1.5 °C from pre-industrial levels and achieving zero emissions by 2050. It also pursued its commitment by participating in the platform.
Furthermore, during 2019, Enel confirmed its commitment as a sponsor within the “Financial Innovation for SDGs” Ac- tion Platform, which comprises the “CFO Taskforce for the. 
SDGs” of which Enel holds the joint presidency. This initia- tive represents an innovative dialogue platform between var- ious Chief Financial Officers around the world, with the aim of promoting sustainable finance and scalable investments to achieve the SDGs.
As part of the United Nations programme, Enel is also an endorsing company of the “Caring for Climate” initiative to promote the role of businesses in tackling climate change, and the “CEO Water Mandate”, which was set up to support businesses in sustainable water management. Since 2015,
Enel has been a signatory company of the Women’s Empow- erment Principles (WEPs) to promote gender equality within the private sector, in the workplace, on markets as well as in communities.
CSR Europe - CSR Europe is the European business net- work dedicated to sustainability, of which Enel has been a member since 2005. The Group has held the position of. 
Deputy Chair of the Board since 2016, and in 2019 had its term renewed for a further three years. Enel takes part in the organisation’s activities, themed meetings and projects and, in 2019, it was one of the first signatories of the “CEOs. 
Call to Action”, an appeal backed by many Chief Executive Of- ficers and addressed to the new European political leaders, for Europe to become a driver for change by adopting a new development model in line with the 2030 Agenda objectives.
The initiative will lead to the development of the Pact 4 Sus- tainable Industry in 2020 to foster a European industry that is increasingly climate-neutral, circular and resource-efficient.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) - Enel has been a mem- ber since 2006, and since 2016 it has been part of the GRI. 
Community and the Stakeholder Council – the multi-stake- holder consulting body that supports the GRI Board of Di- rectors on strategic issues. On top of its participation in ac- tivities shared among GRI Community members, Enel has continued its commitment within the Corporate Leadership. 
Group on Digital Reporting – a two-year programme focus- ing on the main challenges of digitalizing information and possible solutions for making external reporting more and more efficient. Importantly, the Group’s work will result in


215 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix the publication of recommendations in 2020 that will serve to support participants in the area of digital reporting. The collaboration with GRI has also led Enel to provide its own support with the translation work into Italian of the GRI Sus- tainability Reporting Standard (GRI Standard), which was launched on 30 September 2019. The dissemination of this. 
Standard has become ever more important in the context of the 2030 Agenda – a large and complex system where everyone is expected to contribute towards achieving the objectives.
With this in mind, Enel and GRI have decided to further strengthen their partnership through an innovative form of collaboration, to be developed over a two-year period (2019-2020). By pooling their respective skills, they have set themselves the double objective of analysing whether and how the United Nations 2030 Agenda and SDGs impact the corporate reporting process and how businesses and gov- ernments collaborate to make progress on the SDGs in the various geographical, economic and socio-political contexts.
This analysis will improve and innovate the concept of “part- nership” itself, in line with SDG 17 – a key element for accel- erating and boosting the private sector’s impact in achieving the 2030 Agenda.
The first phase of the project – which ended in 2019 – took the form of two reports following two online debates where. 
Enel and GRI engaged a multi-stakeholder audience to spark a discussion, with the aim of: > delving into the role played up until now by reporting and partnerships in driving change in the private sector to achieve the SDGs; > gaining an overview of the actions to be taken to ensure that the SDG reporting can stimulate the development of new partnerships and new business models.
The second and final phase of the collaboration – which is to be completed at the end of 2020 – is based on the results of the two debates and aims to open up dialogue at region- al-level focusing on strengthening the role of the SDGs.
World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) - Since 2016, Enel has been a member of the. 
WBCSD, an international network of around 200 companies committed to environmental protection and to the principles of sustainable development and economic growth. Enel’s. 
CEO is a member of the Committee and the Company is also represented by a Liaison Delegate. Enel plays an active- ly part in the various programmes and working groups cover- ing different areas of interest. In 2019, the Group maintained its support for the Factor10 project on the circular economy, the Transforming Urban Mobility project, and the Climate Ac- tion & Policy, REscale and SBT4Utilities projects, which are a key part of the Climate & Energy programme. Enel has also been involved in the Redefining Value programme, becoming a member of the Task force on Climate-related Financial Dis- closures (TCFD) Electric Utilities Preparer Forum.
Transparency International - In 2019, Enel renewed its commitment to the Business Integrity Forum (BIF), promot- ed by Transparency International Italia. This brings togeth- er several large Italian companies interested in developing common projects to enhance business integrity and dis- seminate best practices to prevent and tackle corruption, as well as for the benefit of other stakeholders, such as small and medium-sized enterprises. Enel helped set up the BIF. 
Lab, an event organised in collaboration with the Scuola Su- periore Sant’Anna in Pisa. Enel brought its experience with “Anti-Bribery and Sustainability” and highlighted how the commitment to anti-corruption – a key pillar of compliance – is being increasingly integrated within sustainable devel- opment policies.
In 2019, Enel’s Chief Executive Officer, Francesco Starace, accepted the invitation of United Nations Secretary-General. 
António Guterres to join the Global Investors for Sustain- able Development (GISD) Alliance – a biennial United Na- tions initiative that aims to identify new ways of promoting long-term investments for sustainable development. The. 
Alliance is an integral part of the United Nations Strategy for Financing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and is made up of 30 global business leaders working to- gether to unlock the funding needed to achieve the SDGs and kick-start social, economic and environmental improve- ment across the world.
The Company has also continued to pursue its commitment to Sustainable Energy for All (SEforALL), an international non-profit organisation which collaborates with the private sector, civil society, institutions and governments to support the Sustainable Development Goal on energy (SDG 7). This commitments comes under the Multi-stakeholder plat- form on SDGs – the European Commission initiative with a two-year term (2017-2019) which aims to support and guide the Commission in achieving the United Nations Sustainable. 
Development Goals at European level. Lastly, since 2016,
Enel has been a member of the International Integrated. 
Reporting Council (IIRC) and the Sustainable Business. 
Roundtable (SBRT).
Further information can be found in the chapters “At a Glance” and “Commitment to the fight against climate change”.


216 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Transparency in institutional processes. 
Enel constantly manages relations with institutions (local, national, European and international), in line with the Enel. 
Compliance Program, providing complete and transparent information with the aim of giving institutional counterparts the best conditions to make the decisions they are responsible for. Enel also contributes to the consultation processes regarding political and legislative dossiers on energy and environmental issues. In the context of relations with European institutions, Enel actively contributes to every phase of the consultation process on political and legislative dossiers of corporate interest through careful monitoring and analysis (see also the chapter “Commitment to the fight against climate change”).
The Enel Group has been registered in the EU voluntary transparency register since its creation in 2008. The register aims to provide citizens with a single and direct access point to information on who carries out activities aimed at influencing the EU decision-making process, the interests pursued and the resources invested in these activities (http:// ec.europa.eu/transparencyregister/public/homePage.do).
In line with the provisions of the Code of Ethics, paragraph 3.26, Enel does not provide finance to political parties, their representatives or candidates in Italy or abroad, nor does it sponsor conventions or parties whose sole purpose is political propaganda. It refrains from any direct or indirect pressure on politicians (for example, by granting the use of its facilities, accepting recruiting recommendations, or consultancy contracts). Enel and its subsidiaries are present in various trade and employer associations whose role includes representing the positioning of its members in the regulatory processes pertaining to the business activity.
The annual contributions paid to the above-mentioned organisations in the form of membership fees in 2019 totalled approximately 7.9 million eurosss, which is 6% less than in 2018ss. In particular, in 2019 the three largest contributions in ss The annual contributions over the past four years are as follows: 7.8 million in 2019; 8.3 million euros in 2018; 9 million euros in 2017; 9 million euros in 2016. These figures include the contributions paid by Enel SpA (including the main companies in Italy) and by its foreign subsidiaries Endesa, Enel Américas and Enel Chile.
ss These figures include the contributions paid by Enel SpA (including the main companies in Italy) and by its foreign subsidiaries Endesa, Enel Américas and Enel Chile.
terms of overall amount came from AELEC (Asociación de empresas de energía eléctrica) in Spain, then Confindustria and Elettricità Futura in Italyss.
The institutional dialogue with the trade and employer associations in which Enel and its subsidiaries took part in 2019 concerned the support of regulatory and consultation processes, among others, on the following main issues: > development of energy policies: including, among other topics, the strategic outlook of the sector, energy efficiency, the growth of renewables, smart grid development and energy costsss; > increasing business competitiveness: including, among other topics, tax regulation, labour law issues and environmental policiesss.
ss Specifically: AELEC (formerly “UNESA”) 1.9 million euros; Confindustria 1.8 million euros; Elettricità Futura (formerly “Associazione Nazionale delle Imprese Elettriche”) 0.7 million euros.
ss The contribution in 2019 was 5 million euros.
ss The contribution in 2019 was 2.8 million euros.


217 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Tax transparency. 
Enel is an industrial group whose main activity involves electricity generation, distribution and sales. The choice of countries where the Group operates is guided by business choices and not by tax reasons.
Tax strategy. 
Since 2017, the Enel Group has adopted a tax strategy, as a set of principles and guidelines inspired by values of transparency and legality, which is published on the website: www.enel.com. The Group’s subsidiaries are required to adopt the tax strategy approved by the parent company, thereby assuming the responsibility of ensuring it is acknowledged and applied.
Tax strategy objectives. 
Enel SpA’s Board of Directors sets out the tax strategy of the entire Group, with the aim of ensuring uniform tax management for all entities involved. The strategy is underpinned by the following approach: > correct and timely determination and settlement of taxes due under the law and implementation of the respective obligations; > correct management of the tax risk, which is the risk incurred for the violation of tax rules or abuse of the principles and purposes of the tax system.
Tax strategy principles. 
The tax strategy principles are the guidelines for Group companies, underpinning their business operations when managing the fiscal variable. The principles also require suitable processes to be adopted to ensure their effectiveness and application.
Values: in line with its sustainability strategy, the Group acts in accordance with the values of honesty and integrity in its tax management, being aware that tax revenue is one of the main sources of contribution to economic and social development of the countries in where it operates.
Legality: the Group pursues behaviour geared towards compliance with the applicable tax rules and is committed to interpreting them in a way that respects both the substance and form.
Tone at the top: the Board of Directors has the role and responsibility of leading the dissemination of a corporate culture based on the values of honesty and integrity and the principle of legality.
Transparency: the Group maintains collaborative and transparent relations with tax authorities, enabling them – among other things – to gain a full understanding of the facts underlying the application of tax rules.
Shareholder value: The Group considers taxes as a business cost and, as such, believes that it must be managed in compliance with the principle of legality, with the aim of safeguarding the Group’s assets and pursuing the primary interest of creating value for shareholders in the medium to long term.
Governance. 
Enel SpA ensures that the tax strategy is acknowledged and applied within the company through the governance bodies.
Its interpretation is left to the parent company, through the. 
Tax unit, which also manages its periodic updates.
Compliance. 
The Group entities must respect the principle of legality, applying the tax laws of the countries where the Group operates, to ensure that the wording, spirit and purpose of the applicable tax rule or system is respected. Moreover, the Enel Group does not undertake behaviours or domestic or cross-border operations that result in purely artificial constructions, that do not reflect the economic reality and from which it is reasonable to expect undue tax advantages, where they conflict with the purpose or spirit of tax provisions or system in question and give rise to double deduction, deduction/non-inclusion or double non-taxation, including as a result of any divergence between the tax systems of different jurisdictions.


218 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Intercompany transactions. 
For tax purposes, intercompany transactions are regulated in accordance with the arm’s length principle – described in the. 
OECD’s Model Tax Convention and Transfer Pricing Guidelines – with the aim of aligning, as correctly as possible, transfer pricing and conditions with the places of value creation within the Group. In order to minimise tax risks, and in line with the applicable regulations, the Enel Group encourages the signing of rulings (Advance Pricing Agreements – APAs) with the local tax authorities on establishing transfer pricing determination methods, on attributing profits and losses to permanent establishments and on applying rules on cross- border flows between Group entities.
Low-tax jurisdictions. 
The Group does not invest in – or through – countries considered to be tax havens for the sole purpose of reducing its tax burden. Such investments may only be proposed if they are supported by sound economic/strategic reasons and have the aim of developing the activities included in the. 
Group’s corporate purpose.
If, in circumstantial situations (for example, in the event of third-party purchases of a group of companies), structures were found to be have been created for the sole purpose of reducing the tax burden or in areas deemed to be tax havens, the Group – failing any sound economic/strategic reasons other than mere tax savings – will commit to removing such structures as quickly as possible.
Tax incentives. 
Tax incentives are a key, development-oriented mechanism for economic policy, which countries use to stimulate growth and attract investment to support the national policy. The use of tax incentives generally results in a reduction of long- term tax liabilities. Some countries where the Enel Group operates offer various incentives. The Enel Group uses widely applicable tax incentives for all operators, respecting all specific regulations, where the incentives are in line with its industrial and operational objectives and are consistent with the economic substance of its investments.
Tax governance, control and risk management. 
Governance body. 
In Enel’s organisational model, the Holding Company’s Tax. 
Affairs unit is tasked – among other things – with developing the Group’s tax strategy, identifying, analysing and managing the various optimisation initiatives, monitoring the key tax is- sues and providing its support to the various Business Lines.
Alongside the Holding Function, the Tax Affairs units of the various countries – acting in accordance with the values and principles of the tax strategy set out by the holding company – are responsible for managing compliance, tax planning and tax monitoring at local level.
Organisation. 
The Enel Group has adopted a set of rules, procedures and standards which are part of the Group’s wider organisation and control system and which are considered key points of reference that all parties, depending on their type of relationship with the Group, are required to observess. The various policies and procedures applicable both at Group level and country level regulate the activities, as well as their management procedures and Tax Affairs responsibilities including in relation to other corporate Functions. These documents are published on the company Intranet and are accessible to all Enel people; they form the general rules of conduct applicable within the Group when carrying out activities. Specifically in relation to taxation, in addition to the tax strategy there are specific organisational documents – both at global and local level – regarding the processes of Tax. 
Compliance, Tax Planning, Tax Monitoring, Transfer Pricing and Tax Risk Management.
The general principle is that the Tax units must be the appropriate size and equipped with the necessary skills to perform the role of a decision-making analysis centre within the governance and business processes, in addition to the role of overseeing compliance performance. For this purpose, specific and ongoing training initiatives on tax issues at both ss For example: Code of Ethics; Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan; Enel Global Compliance Program (EGCP), corporate policies, models and procedures; the Tax Strategy; the Internal Control and Risk Management System; the proxy power of attorney system; the sanctions system referred to in the applicable CCNL; any other documentation relating to the current control systems; the relevant accounting standards; IT procedures and IT applications.


219 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix country and global level are set up, with recurring meetings between all of the Group’s Tax Managers in order to ensure the appropriate alignment.
Tax risks. 
The Group has a Tax Control Framework (TCF) whose main aim is to provide the Tax units with a single and consistent set of guidance for adopting a correct and effective approach to tax risk management within the Group. The framework sets out guidelines and methodological rules so as to consistently assess, monitor and manage the relevant tax risk for the Group companies, in accordance with the principles and guidelines set out by the tax strategy, and in the awareness that the Group companies operating in different jurisdictions must adopt the TCF with respect for the specific societal context and domestic regulations of the individual countries in question. In accordance with the principles and guidelines set out in the tax strategy, the Enel. 
Group aims to proactively manage the tax risk and believes that adopting a TCF can ensure the timely detection, correct measurement and control of the risk tax. The task of the. 
TCF is to identify the sources of tax risk for the purpose of compliance and interpreting tax regulations, while mapping out the respective processes and activities in order to form a network of risk detectors, to be associated with the resulting control measures. In particular, as the set of detectors and control measures identify sources of risk, the TCF can provide a broad spectrum of control. As such, any materialisation of the tax risk can be intercepted and managed by each relevant. 
Tax unit. The effectiveness and ongoing updates of the TCF are ensured through periodic monitoring of the risk mapping, regular internal audit processes, as well as through the tax authority systems set out under cooperative compliance regimes (where implemented).
Mechanism for reports by stakeholders. 
For the Enel Group, tax compliance is considered a key aspect of the Company’s ethical and responsible management.
As such, the violations that can be reported through the. 
Company’s internal channels also include those relating to tax. The Group’s Code of Ethics is the framework of “ethical management” which Enel operates, also tying in fully with the tax strategy. There are appropriate provisions on Code of. 
Ethics violations to ensure its effective implementation, and these requirements must also be considered to cover the provisions of the tax strategy.


220 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Transparent relationship with stakeholders. 
The Enel Group ensures transparency and fairness in its re- lations with tax authorities, in the event of audits on both the Group companies and third parties. To consolidate this transparency with tax authorities, the Enel Group promotes engagement in co-operative compliance schemes for com- panies that integrate the requirements of their respective domestic regulations in order to reinforce their relations. It also complies with the transfer pricing documentation provi- sions in accordance with OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines (the “three-tiered approach” consisting into Master File, Lo- cal File and Country-by-Country Report). Moreover, to avoid double taxation, the Group promotes mutual agreement procedures for the settlement of international disputes (Mu- tual Agreement Procedure – MAP), which have the direct in- volvement of tax authorities from the contracting countries.
Lastly, Enel consistently acts with a transparent and collabo- rative approach with all institutions and associations to sup- port the development of effective tax systems in the various countries where it operates.
In 2019, Enel joined the European Business Tax Forum (EBTF – https://ebtforum.org), an association that aims to open up a public debate on taxation by providing a balanced and comprehensive perspective of the tax paid by companies.
In view of this objective, tax information is provided to the various stakeholders. The EBTF has been operating since 2017 as an informal non-profit initiative by a group of multina- tionals based in the EU and European Free Trade Association (EFTA) in order to develop a long-term and high-value strate- gy for companies playing an active role in the public debate on taxation. In 2018 and 2019, the Forum underwent a major expansion and gave rise to the EU/EFTA Total Tax Contribu- tion Study. The study is available on the association’s website and reports aggregate data for the various types of tax paid by the major European multinational companies by revenue and/or market capitalisation.
Reporting. 
As of 2018 (2018-2017), Enel has adopted a Total Tax. 
Contribution model for Italy and the main countries where it operates, providing evidence of the taxes paid and withheld. The 2019 document (2019 and 2018) is available at Enel (https://www.enel.com/investors/sustainability- performance) and underlines the importance the Group places on tax issues, their social role and transparency in general, as a driver of sustainable development.
The comparative analysis of the 2019 and 2018 data revealed an increase in 2019 of the Total Tax Borne for a total of 144.5 million euros (+3.1%), and essentially: 1) the increase in income taxes in Spain and Russia, amounting to 90 and 22 million euros respectively due to the higher advances amounts paid in 2019 and lower tax credits offset by the two countries in the same year, and Mexico, amounting to 73 million euros due to the one-off payment of taxes on extraordinary transactions; 2) the increase in taxes on products and services in Brazil amounting to 85 million euros for the payment of PIS and Cofins on revenue that increased by around 2,000 million euros in the country from 2018 to 2019. These increases – totalling 270 million euros – are partly offset by the environmental tax reduction in Spain totalling 106 million euros, essentially due to the following factors: reduction of the tax on hydrocarbons in electricity generation and general tax reduction on coal and on the electricity generation value as a result of the suspension/ closure of coal power plants.
With regard to the Total Tax Collected, the increase in 2019 totalling 236 million euros (+1.7%) was essentially the result of: 1) the increase in taxes on products and services in Bra- zil, Chile, Peru and Russia, totalling 286 million euros, due to the general increase in revenues in the various countries, partially offset by the reduction of these taxes in Italy total- ling 85 million euros, mainly due to the reduction of taxes on sales to end customers gas and electricity; 2) the increase in taxes on labour, mainly in Italy and Spain amounting to 15 and 24 million euros respectively.
Lastly, the TTC index rose from 38.4% in 2018 to 64.7% in 2019; this 26.2% variation is almost exclusively the result of the reduction of Earnings Before Tax (EBT) in 2019 – totalling 4,710 million euros – mainly associated with the impairment of several coal plants in Italy, Spain, Chile and Russia as part of the Group’s decarbonization process. As this impairment is not immediately tax deductible, it did not have a correlated impact on the reduction of income taxes paid in 2019.
The table below shows information relating to the overall tax contribution for 2019 in the main countries where the Enel. 
Group operates (TTC 2019).


221 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix


222 Sustainability Report 2019. 
TOTAL TAX CONTRIBUTION 2019. 
UM ITALY SPAIN BRAZIL CHILE COLOMBIA ARGENTINA PERU RUSSIA. 
Total Tax Borne (cash accounting) (1) mil euros 1,454.6 1,432.1 923.7 129.1 342.4 148.3 134.4 51.0. 
Income taxes (2) mil euros 769.3 234.5 162.8 100.9 234.3 108.6 103.8 29.3. 
Property taxes (3) mil euros 127.4 64.7 27.2 2.4 1.8 1.0 13.5 9.3. 
Taxes on labor (4) mil euros 520.5 137.6 78.3 - 10.4 18.0 1.8 12.3. 
Taxes on products and services (5) mil euros 25.6 254.5 655.1 5.8 70.3 15.3 13.6 -
Environmental taxes (6) mil euros 11.8 740.9 0.3 20.0 25.5 5.5 1.7 -
Total Tax Collected (on a cash basis) (7) mil euros 8,149.1 2,446.6 2,374.7 206.0 57.9 111.8 96.0 67.3. 
Income taxes (2) mil euros 2.1 73.0 33.3 46.1 19.6 4.2 8.4 2.0. 
Property taxes (3) mil euros -
Taxes on labor (4) mil euros 597.9 237.0 56.9 17.1 9.4 18.2 8.4 6.8. 
Taxes on products and services (5) mil euros 7,549.1 1,514.4 2,284.5 142.8 19.0 89.4 79.2 58.4. 
Environmental taxes (6) mil euros -622.2 -10.0 -
Total Tax Contibution (cash accounting) - TTC mil euros 9,603.7 3,878.8 3,298.4 335.2 400.3 260.1 230.4 118.3. 
Economic data (8) UM Italy Spain Brazil Chile Colombia Argentina Peru Russia. 
EBT (excl. Dividends) (9) mil euros 1,590.5 36.7 528.5 421.2 821.5 479.8 386.1 -201.2. 
Income Before Tax Borne (10) mil euros 2,275.8 1,267.4 1,289.4 449.5 947.6 533.4 416.7 -179.5. 
Revenues mil euros 63,524.4 20,317.1 12,515.5 3,523.8 2,607.8 1,399.8 1,410.4 1,034.1. 
TTC Indicators UM Italy Spain Brazil Chile Colombia Argentina Peru Russia. 
TTC Index (11) % 63.9 113.0 71.6 28.7 36.1 27.8 32.3 n.a.
TTC/Earnings (12) % 15.1 19.1 26.4 9.5 15.4 18.6 16.3 11.4. 
Tax borne in relation to revenues (13) % 2.3 7.0 7.4 3.7 13.1 10.6 9.5 4.9. 
Tax collected in relation to revenues (14) % 12.8 12.0 19.0 5.8 2.2 8.0 6.8 6.5. 
Tax value distributed to the company (15) % 71.3 75.7 70.8 32.8 34.9 34.1 38.2 65.1 1 Taxes that represent a cost for Group companies and have an impact on the income statement. 2 Taxes on company profits that are borne (with impact on profit and loss) and collected (without impact on profit and loss). 3 Taxes (borne and collected) on the ownership, use or transfer of tangible or intangible property. 4 Generally taxes, borne and collected, on employment (including income tax and social security payments). Taxes levied on the employer are considered taxes borne and taxes levied on the employee are considered taxes collected. 5 Indirect taxes and duties (borne and collected) levied on the production, sale or use of goods and services, including taxes and duties levied on international trade and transactions. 6 Taxes and duties (borne and collected) levied on the supply, use or consumption of goods and services that are considered harmful to the environment. 7 Taxes that do not represent a cost because Group companies act as a substitute for tax. 8 The information is represented in line with local GAAP, consolidated data at country level (where present) or alternatively the sum of the values of the companies in the perimeter have been considered.


223 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
ROMANIA USA & CANADA PANAMA NETHERLANDS MEXICO GUATEMALA COSTA RICA 2019 2018 (16) 2019-2018 % 22.6 40.1 34.7 9.2 85.2 2.5 3.9 4,813.8 4,669.3 144.5 3.1 13.7 1.6 32.9 8.2 82.6 2.0 3.2 1,887.7 1,678.5 209.2 12.5 3.7 26.5 0.2 - - 0.2 0.2 278.1 278.0 0.1 - 2.6 11.9 0.6 0.2 2.1 0.2 0.6 797.0 834.1 -37.1 -4.5 2.5 0.1 - 0.8 0.5 - - 1,044.1 969.4 74.8 7.7 - - 1.1 - - - - 806.9 909.3 -102.5 -11.3 182.3 46.8 8.1 0.5 35.6 5.3 4.3 13,792.5 13,556.5 236.0 1.7 - 1.3 7.0 -10.9 1.7 1.5 211.1 194.1 17.0 8.8 2.5 - -2.5 2.2 0.2 10.2 32.1 43.9 0.9 0.5 4.1 0.1 0.1 1,033.5 987.3 46.2 4.7 150.2 1.6 0.3 -18.1 3.5 2.7 11,913.2 11,714.8 198.5 1.7 632.2 658.1 -25.9 -3.9 204.9 86.8 42.9 9.7 120.8 7.8 8.3 18,606.4 18,225.8 380.5 2.1. 
Romania USA & Canada Panama Netherlands Mexico Guatemala Costa Rica 2019 2018 (16) 2019-2018 % 173.1 70.5 89.2 158.6 -121.9 7.0 -4.7 4,434.9 9,104.2 -4,669.3 -51.3 181.9 109.0 91.1 159.5 -101.3 7.9 -3.9 7,444.4 12,154.5 -4,710.1 -38.8 1,966.2 1,220.6 197.7 110.1 765.5 56.7 21.0 110,670.8 106,116.8 4,554.0 4.3. 
Romania USA & Canada Panama Netherlands Mexico Guatemala Costa Rica 2019 2018 (16) 2019-2018 % 12.4 36.8 38.1 5.8 n.a. 31.4 n.a. 64.7 38.4 26.2 - 10.4 7.1 21.7 8.8 15.8 13.8 39.3 16.8 17.2 -0.4 - 1.1 3.3 17.6 8.4 11.1 4.4 18.7 4.3 4.4 -0.1 - 9.3 3.8 4.1 0.5 4.6 9.4 20.6 12.5 12.8 -0.3 - 42.7 18.7 38.9 6.2 35.2 46.1 78.9 65.8 59.3 6.5 - 9 It is considered net of dividends in order to avoid distortions on the effective tax rate. 10 Profit Before Taxes Borne is computed as Profit Before Tax plus Total Tax Borne less Corporate Income Tax paid. Where Profit Before Taxes Borne was negative the TTC ratio was not calculated. 11 Total Tax Borne (cash accounting)/EBT. 12 TTC/Revenues. 13 Total Tax Borne (cash accounting)/Revenues. 14 Total Tax Collected (cash accounting)/Revenues. 15 TTC/Value distributed (sum of: net interest, taxes, salaries and wages, income after taxes). 16 The 2018 total also includes the 2018 data of the following countries: USA & Canada, Panama, Holland, Mexico, Guatemala and Costa Rica. The 2018 data have been restated with respect to the 2018 Sustainability Report in order to take into account the year-end rate for balance sheet data (e.g. taxes paid) and the average rate for economic data (e.g. revenues, profits). The average exchange rate had previously been applied to all data.


224 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Values and pillars of company ethics. 
The Enel Group’s activities are supported by a sound ethical foundation: its constantly evolving nature is aimed at incorporating best practices at national and international level. Everyone who works at Enel and for Enel must respect and apply these practices in their daily activities. This system is based on specific compliance programmes, such as: the. 
Code of Ethics, Human Rights Policy, Zero Tolerance of. 
Corruption Plan (ZTC Plan), Enel Global Compliance Program (EGCP), Model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/01 and other national compliance models that may be adopted by Group companies in accordance with local regulations.
Code of Ethics. 
In 2002, Enel adopted its Code of Ethics, which expresses the commitments and ethical responsibilities it follows in conducting business, by regulating and harmonising corporate conduct according to standards based on the utmost transparency and integrity towards all stakeholders.
The Code of Ethics is valid both in Italy and abroad, while taking into account the cultural, social and economic diversity of the various countries where Enel operates. Specifically, the document is divided into: > general principles for stakeholder relations, which define the values that the Group uses as inspiration in carrying out its various activities; > criteria of conduct towards each class of stakeholders, which provide the guidelines and standards that Enel peo- ple are required to follow to ensure compliance with the general principles and to prevent the risk of unethical con- duct; > implementation mechanisms that describe the control sys- tem designed to ensure compliance with the Code and its continuous improvement. Enel also requires that all affiliates and subsidiary companies, main suppliers and partners adopt ethical behaviour in line with the Code’s general principles.
In 2019, the Code was updated in order to incorporate several international references on human rights and to align the tasks of the units responsible for the update with the current organisational structure.
Reports by stakeholders. 
Any violation or suspected violation of Enel Compli- ance Programs can be reported, including anonymously, through a single platform at Group level (“Ethics Point”), which is accessible at the following address: www.enel.
ethicspoint.com.
Reports can also be sent by e-mail or regular mail. The Au- dit Function receives and analyses these reports, perform- ing the related checks and ensuring uniform treatment at. 
Group level, in compliance with company policies and lo- cal regulations.
The report management process is governed by the whistleblowing policy, “Management of anonymous and non-anonymous reports”, which reiterates the guarantee of anonymity and protection against any form of retalia- tion and also ensures adequate protection against ground- less reports made in bad faith for the purpose of harming people and/or companies.
 102-25 102-33 103-2 102-12 102-15 102-16 102-17 205-2 205-3 405-1 412-2 103-3 406-1 408-1 409-1 412-1 413-1


225 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
KPI UM 2019 2018 2017 2019-2018 %
Reports received (1) no. 166 144 123 22 15.3. 
Violations related to incidents of (1) no. 36 31 31 5 16.1. 
Conflict of interest/corruption (2) no. 8 10 7 -2 -20.0. 
Misappropriation no. 11 7 15 4 57.1. 
Labour practices no. 11 8 6 3 37.5. 
Community and society no. -1 --
Other reasons no. 6 6 2 --
In 2019, 166 reports concerning the Code of Ethics were re- ceived, up on 2018, mainly due to the change in the scope of consolidation in Latin America. From the reports received, 8 ep- isodes of violation were identified as cases of “conflict of inter- est” for which Enel adopted specific measures against the par- ties involved, in line with the relevant regulations, which involved 7 actions against employees and 4 actions against contractors.
As far as cases relating to labour practices are concerned, 74 re- ports were recorded, of which 11 were identified as violation: 3 cases concerning harassment, 7 cases concerning the company climate, and 1 case concerning health and safety breaches.
Organisational and Management Model pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/01. 
Legislative Decree 231 of 8 June 2001 introduced into the. 
Italian legal system an administrative (but essentially crim- inal) liability for companies, for certain types of offences committed by their directors, managers or employees in the interest or for the benefit of the companies themselves. Al- ready in 2002, Enel – the first in Italy – adopted an Organisa- tional and Management Model that meets the requirements of Legislative Decree 231/01 (Model 231). Since then, it has been constantly updated in line with the reference regulato- ry framework and current organisational context.
Active and passive anti-corruption 103-2 103-3 205-2. 
In compliance with the 10th Global Compact principle, ac- cording to which “companies are committed to combating corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery”,
Enel intends to pursue its commitment to fighting corruption in all its forms – whether direct or indirect – by applying the principles expressed in the pillars of its Anti-bribery Manage- ment System.
Enel’s Anti-Bribery Management System (ABMS) is based on the Group’s commitment to fighting corruption by ap- plying the criteria of transparency and conduct as set out in the Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan (ZTC Plan) and confirmed in the Anti-Bribery Policy adopted pursuant to international standard ISO 37001:2016 (on anti-bribery man- agement systems).
Together with the ZTC Plan, the pillars underpinning the. 
ABMS are: > the Code of Ethics; > the Models designed to prevent the main crime risks (for example, corrupt relations with public administrations and private individuals, environmental crimes, corporate offences and, for Italian companies, manslaughter, seri- ous personal injury or grievous bodily harm committed in violation of the rules on the protection of occupational health and safety), as described by the applicable regula- 1 In 2019, the analysis of reports received in 2018 was completed, and for this reason, the number of confirmed violations for 2018 was restated from 30 to 31. The additional violation is attributable to reasons of a supplier’s compliance with the law on overtime.
2 Corruption consists of the abuse of power with the goal of private gain and can be instigated by individuals in the public or private sector. It is interpreted here as including corrupt practices such as bribery, extortion, collusion, conflicts of interest and money laundering.


226 Sustainability Report 2019 ing to the international standard ISO 37001:2016 on anti-brib- ery management systems. The certification was confirmed in successive maintenance checks in the course of 2018 and 2019 respectively. The certification is scheduled to be renewed in 2020.
After Enel SpA obtained certification ISO 37001 for its an- ti-bribery management system, it gradually extended the. 
ISO 37001 certification plan to the Group’s main Italian and foreign subsidiaries. At present, the certification progress has been successfully completed, specifically for Enel Green. 
Power SpA (also covering some of its foreign subsidiaries),
Enel Global Trading SpA, Enel Produzione SpA, e-distribuzi- one SpA, Enel Italia Srl, Enel Sole Srl, Enel.si Srl, Enel Ener- gia SpA, Servizio Elettrico Nazionale SpA, Enel X Srl, Enel X. 
Italia SpA, Enel Global Infrastructure & Networks Srl, and for the Group’s foreign companies, for Endesa SA, Enel Améri- cas SA, Enel Generación Chile SA, Enel Chile SA, Edesur SA,
Codensa SA, Emgesa SA, Enel Distribución Perú SA, Enel. 
Generación Peru SA, the companies operating in Romania.
During the 2020-2021 two-year period, the anti-bribery cer- tification process in accordance with ISO 37001 is due to be further extended to other Italian and foreign companies of the Group, in light of the current corporate scope during the period in question.
The role of Enel SpA’s “Anti-bribery compliance function” – set up pursuant to the ISO 37001:2016 standard – has been entrusted to an internal corporate body, made up of a repre- sentative from the following Functions: Legal & Corporate. 
Affairs, Audit, People & Organization (Quality unit). The body is tasked – among other things – with overseeing the Com- pany’s planning and implementation of its anti-bribery man- agement system.
tions on corporate responsibility (the “Compliance Pro- gram”) in the various countries where the Group operates (for example, Organisational Model 231 for Italian compa- nies, the “Risk Prevention Model/Integrity Program” for. 
Group companies in Spain and South America); > the Enel Global Compliance Program (“EGCP”), a govern- ance tool aimed at strengthening the Group’s ethical and professional commitment to preventing offences committed outside of Italy that might result in corporate criminal responsibility and risks to reputation. The EGCP applies to the Group’s non-Italian companies and sup- plements any compliance programmes adopted by the same companies, in compliance with local regulations.
Without prejudice to the provisions of these compliance pro- grammes and the specific regulatory provisions applicable to the crime of corruption in all its forms, the Enel Global. 
Compliance Program complies with the main relevant legis- lation and best corporate governance practices, constituting the general conduct framework for Enel people in the fight against corruption.
The areas with the most potential exposure to corruption (ac- tive and/or passive), both in relations with public administra- tions and in the private sector, include: (i) the negotiation and execution of contracts with third parties (public authorities, associations, companies, etc.); (ii) participation in tenders (public and private); (iii) selection of partners/consultants; (iv) management of financial resources; (v) management of gifts and hospitality; (vi) personnel recruitment processes; (vii) in- centive mechanisms in top managers’ compensation.
In relation to these risk areas, the above governance tools (ZTC Plan, Code of Ethics and the EGCP/Compliance Pro- gram) – together with the current body of procedures – set out an effective prevention system, which is an integral part of the Group’s Internal Control System. From an organisa- tional perspective, the Chief Executive Officer, in exercising his/her powers, represents Enel SpA’s Governing Body pur- suant to the standard ISO 37001; Top Management, on the other hand, is represented by the Head of the Company’s. 
Audit Function and Head of the Legal & Corporate Affairs. 
Function – both of whom report directly to the Chief Exec- utive Officer.
Top Management, in performing its duties, makes use of all necessary resources and the collaboration of the other re- sponsible Departments heads, who also report directly to the Chief Executive Officer (for example, People & Organisa- tion, Communications).
On May 8, 2017, Enel SpA’s ABMS was certified as conform-


227 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Human rights 103-2 103-3 407-1 409-1 411-1 412-1 413-1 408-1. 
Since 2011, the “United Nations Guiding Principles on Busi- ness and Human Rights” (UNGPs) have been a key point of reference for companies to evaluate their management systems and respective impacts on human rights, assuming direct responsibility for them.
In particular, the guiding principles on companies set out the following framework:
Protect. 
On 5 February 2013, Enel passed resolution to accept the. 
United Nations’ “Protect, Respect, Remedy” framework by approval of the Board of Directors – both of the Parent. 
Company and each subsidiary – of a human rights policy that strengthens and deepens the commitments already es- tablished by company Compliance Programmes. The policy was drawn up through a consultation process that involved the Enel people and major international experts. It identifies eight principles that the people working in Enel SpA and its subsidiaries must observe in carrying out all their activities.
Furthermore, it promotes respect of all principles within its business relationships and compliance with the same stand- ards by its contractors, suppliers and business partners, with a particular focus on conflict-affected and high-risk contexts.
The policy concerns two overarching issues: labour practices and relations with communities and society. This policy is available online at www.enel.com.
Labour practices: 1. Rejection of forced or compulsory labour and child labour; 2. Respect for diversity and non-discrimination; 3. Freedom of association and collective bargaining; 4. Health and safety; 5. Fair and favourable working conditions;
Relations with communities and society: 1. Respect for community rights; 2. Integrity: zero tolerance of corruption; 3. Privacy and communication.
The principles set out in the policy have been inspired by the content of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights and several. 
International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions on human and social rights, freedom of association and the right to organise, prohibition of forced and child labour, and occupational health and safety.
The policy assigns the Innovability Function the following tasks: planning and coordinating the adoption of due diligence process12 jointly with the other relevant Functions, for their respective areas of competence; reporting to the Control and Risks Committee on the development of the due diligence process; annually reporting on Enel’s performance regarding its commitments to human rights as part of the Group’s Sustainability Report. In particular, within the Innovability Function, the Sustainability Planning and Performance Management unit has been tasked with managing the positioning on human rights and respective internal and external disclosure on activities, as well as integrating the human rights policy into corporate processes and ensuring the performance of due diligence activities.
Moreover, a specific focal point at global level was also appointed within this unit to coordinate human rights activities, to be coordinated by the various Sustainability. 
Managers at country level.
ss In the context of the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (Principles 17-21), this term refers to a continuous management system implemented by a company considering the sector in which it operates, its operating contexts and the size of the company, among other things, to ensure respect for human rights or to avoid being party to their abuse. This implies “identifying, preventing, mitigating and reporting” potentially negative effects caused by the company.
Protect. 
Safeguarding human rights through appropriate policies and rules. 
Companies must “know and show” their impacts on human rights and the measures to mitigate and correct them. 
Companies must implement remedial actions through judicial and non-judicial system. 
Respect. 
Remedy


228 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Respect. 
Enel performs a specific human rights due diligence process on the entire value chain in the various countries where it op- erates. Specifically, the process was developed in line with best international practices and includes four phases:
PHASE MAIN RESULTS 2017-2019. 
Analysis of risk perceived by key stakeholders, at individual country level, with regard to labour rights, local community rights and environment rights. 
The analysis showed that issues relating to bribery and environmental impacts are a “high priority risk” assessment, that requires companies to adopt advanced monitoring and management mechanisms.
Gap assessment to identify and analyse organisational and risk control systems The policies, procedures, systems and practices in place in the Group in each area of the value chain have been assessed by analysing over 100 indicators. The results showed that Enel has a set of robust mechanisms and management systems, which ensure respect for human rights and adequately manage existing risks.
Development of improvement plans Around 160 actions have been planned, covering 100% of operations and sites.
Monitoring improvement plans At the end of 2019, over 90% of actions were completed. For the remaining 10% approximately, some actions will be completed in 2020 as part of larger processes or due to external factors (such as the social crisis in Chile), while others have been removed as they are no longer necessary following organisational changes.


229 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Below is a summary table of the issues set out by the policy, indicating the relative assessment of the perceived risk and their level of coverage.
The flow described above was formalised in an internal procedure, and includes process assessment cycles every three years to verify the progress of the improvement plans as and when they are established. During 2020, the new assessment cycle will start, which will follow that conducted between 2017 and 2019.
TOPICS AVERAGE PERCEIVED RISK SYSTEM TO PROTECT HUMAN RIGHTS MAIN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES TO PROTECT HUMAN RIGHTS. 
Labor practices. 
Freedom of association and collective bargaining Acceptable risk Robust Enel commits to respecting freedom of association and collective bargaining for all its workers. In particular, Enel recognizes their right to form or take part in organizations aimed at defending and promoting their interests; that they are represented by trade unions or other forms of representation; and the value of collective bargaining as a privileged tool for determining contractual conditions and governing relations between company management and trade unions.
Rejection of forced labor Acceptable risk Robust The contracts govern working conditions in their entirety and clearly show all the terms included in the contracts that provide details on the rights of workers (working hours, salary, overtime, compensations, benefits). The terms are translated into workers’ native languages and are supported with information contained in documents shared with the people. Human resources management systems and procedures ensure there are no minors in the workforce. Internships and school-to-work programs are also available.
Fair and favorable working conditions Acceptable risk Robust. 
Rejection of child labor Risk to be monitored Robust. 
Diversity and inclusion Risk to be monitored Robust For details, see the chapter “Our people and their value”.
Health and safety Risk to be monitored Robust For details, see the chapter “Occupational health and safety”
Community and society. 
Community relations Risk to be monitored Robust For details, see the chapter “Communities and value sharing”.
Environmental impacts High priority risk Robust For details see the chapter “Environmental sustainability”.
Corruption High priority risk Robust For details, see the paragraph “Active and passive anti- corruption management system”.
Average perceived risk: average of perceived risk levels identified in the countries being analyzed. Risk reference scale: 1. High risk; 2. High priority risk; 3. Risk to be monitored; 4. Acceptable risk. Performance value reference scale of the system (processes, policies and procedures) to protect human rights: Robust (R) (75%-100%); Good (B) (50%-75%); Sufficient (S) (25%-50%); Needs improvement (M) (0%-25%).


230 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Remedy. 
Around 160 actions have been planned, covering 100% of operations and sites. New actions were launched in each country of operation: for example, in Spain due diligence assessments on human rights were applied to merger & acquisition processes; in Italy, the e-distribuzione proce- dures were carried out with a key focus on human rights aspects; in Romania, reporting mechanisms were devel- oped for all areas with potential impacts; in Russia, human rights aspects were included in the sustainability surveys carried out with internal and external stakeholders. Also in. 
South American countries, numerous measures were tak- en following the approval of the due diligence improvement plan: in Argentina, communication on the use of the ethical channel and on anti-bribery policy has been stepped up; in Brazil, new business development processes were re- viewed with the inclusion of due diligence on human rights; in Peru, specific projects were implemented to promote gender equality; in Chile, stakeholder groups were mapped out that may be interested in the activities launched or with the potential to be developed; in Colombia, five different due diligences were carried out at the coal supplier sites.
With respect to labour rights lastly, on average, these are perceived as being less risky, and also their monitoring operations and processes comply with both the principles of the most common international guidelines and with the. 
Group’s internal policies. However, minor areas of improve- ment have been identified in some countries, as shown in the table below.
TOPIC BUSINESS LINES COUNTRIES AREAS FOR IMPROVEMENT. 
Rejection of forced labor Global Procurement Brazil, Chile, Colombia To streghten the area of supplier assessment and their performances. 
Rejection of child labor Global Procurement/ Legal and Corporate Affairs Chile, Romania, Russia Integrated supplier’s control in order to verify their involvement in past violations .
Diversity Sustainability, People and Organizaiton Romania Improve access for people with disability.
Freedom of association and collective bargaining Global Procurement Chile, Colombia, Italy, Peru, Romania, Russia Checks on the performance of suppliers with active contracts.
Security and Human Rights 103-2 410-1 103-3 “Taking the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human. 
Rights as its reference, Enel is committed to ensuring that private security forces operating to protect Group people and property in their areas of activity act consistently with applicable national laws and international rules and stand- ards, while encouraging law enforcement agencies to act in the same manner” (paragraph 2.2.1 of Enel’s Human Rights. 
Policy). In general, according to national regulations, the se- curity service can only be assigned to public or private forces in the absence of legislative provisions.
Security management at Enel is assigned to a dedicated. 
Holding unit and to specific units in the various countries where the Group operates. The principles of action concern: > Proactivity: continual collection of data and information for the detection and interpretation of weak signals; > Holistic Vision: integrated assessment and manage- ment of security risks for all potentially exposed assets (people, infrastructure, intangible assets); > Open Power: cooperation with Business Lines, refer- ence institutions and other operators of critical infra- structure; > Resilience: adoption of measures to ensure the conti- nuity of the system’s operation and not only its passive protection;


231 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix > Integrated Response: coordinated incident manage- ment between all components involved (communica- tion, security, institutional affairs, technical lines).
In all cases where it is not possible to turn to public forc- es and it is necessary to use private security guards, Enel ensures that: all human rights assessments are made; the workers of security service providers have received appro- priate training; contracts include human rights criteria; and that adequate equipment is provided to security guards.
Training and information. 
In 2019, approximately 820 thousand of training on sustain- ability issues were provided, of which human rights has been a fundamental part. In particular, the courses mainly addressed environmental and occupational health and safety issues, with an average of 16.5 hours of training per capita, which is up from the 2018 figure (11.9 hours). At the end of 2018, a new online training course on human rights was also launched. This course is Enel’s way of renewing its commit- ment to this topic, involving all Company people by sharing experiences and best practices that highlight the key role of human rights. During 2019, approximately 11,000 people at- tended the course for a total of about 3,700 hours (0.3 hours per capita).
For further details see the following chapters: “Sustainable supply chain” (forced and child labour), “Our people and their value” (diversity), “Community and sharing of value” (Rela- tions with local communities) and “Occupational health and safety” (occupational health and safety).


232 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Data protection 103-2 418-1 103-3. 
The protection and processing of personal data is a major challenge in the age of digitalization and market globalisation in terms of responsibility when managing data, but it is also an opportunity to improve the service that Group companies provide. To rise to this challenge and in line with the new. 
General Data Protection Regulation EU 2016/679 (GDPR), the Enel Group adopted a structure in 2017 to ensure that the privacy of all natural persons with whom it interacts is fully respected. Specifically, the Legal Function contains a. 
Data Protection Office, which has assigned “Data Protection. 
Officers” (or DPOs). DPOs are appointed based on their pro- fessional skills, knowledge and their ability to perform tasks in accordance with the principle of independence.
The Data Protection Office is structured as follows: > Governance Data Protection: This monitors changes to legislation on data protection and determines the. 
Group’s compliance; > Global Service Functions and Holding Functions. 
Data Protection: This promotes privacy from the outset of planning processes at global level and ensures con- sistent development at national level; > Global Business Lines Data Protection: This supports. 
Global Business Lines in accordance with data protec- tion, and monitors changes to data protection certifica- tion mechanisms for products and services; > Country units for the protection of national data (Ita- ly, Portugal, Romania, Spain): These monitor changes to data protection legislation at country level.
The Data Protection Office has also developed internal tools based on Enel’s size and complexity to ensure compliance with the protection and optimal use of data to support Enel’s presence in the European data economy. Some of these tools include: Personal data processing logs and the Data. 
Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA). The DPO implements processes and activities in accordance with the GDPR and commits to support data officers in drawing up data protec- tion agreements and clauses; planning data governance and corporate policies; providing privacy consulting in the design and default phase; ensuring adequate risk management by making wide use of the DPIA and monitoring the consisten- cy of data protection policies within the organisation, particu- larly between legal entities within and outside Europe.
Moreover, the Audit Function carries out continuous moni- toring of the GDPR’s implementation, in collaboration with data protection officers, in order to track the progress of the efforts to align the companies’ processes and tools with the. 
GDPR. Activities are also planned to analyse security meas- ures on systems that contain data relevant to the GDPR, commercially sensitive data (Distribution and Market) and employee data managed in human resources procedures, including in different geographical areas outside of the scope of the GDPR.
In 2019, the Group’s European companies handled over 40,000 communications relating to personal data protection and have collaborated with national authorities, having re- ceived 79 requests for information and clarification. In Italy, e-distribuzione previously reported one incident relating to personal data and one data breach to the Authority for the. 
Protection of Personal Data. In Romania, two data breaches were registered, formally notified to the competent Authori- ty, which involved the market companies (Enel Energie Mun- tenia and Enel Energie SA) and the distribution companies (E-Distribuție Muntenia, E-Distribuție Dobrogea and E-Dis- tribuție Banat).
Lastly, promoting a responsible and proactive approach to incorporate privacy right from the planning stage of pro- cesses, corporate services and activities, a specific train- ing course has been set up for the people working at Enel.


233 Sound governance. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix


METHODOLOGICAL NOTE 3.


236 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Enel has been publishing a Sustainability Report with its Group Financial Report since 2003.
In accordance with the requirements of Italian Legislative Decree no. 254 of Decem- ber 30, 2016, “Implementation of Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of October 22, 2014, amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards disclosure of non-financial and diversity information by certain large undertakings and groups”, Enel has been publishing a Consolidated Non-Financial Statement (NFS) since 2017. The Sustainability Report will constitute Enel’s NFS with effect from financial year 2019. Accordingly, from this financial year on, the NFS will no longer be published as a separate document. This Enel Group Sustainability Report at December 31, 2019 has therefore been prepared in accordance with Legislative. 
Decree no. 254/16 and the 2019 Budget Act and is a separate document from the. 
Report on Operations. The document has been published in the “Investors” section of Enel’s website (www.enel.com).
The 2019 Sustainability Report is addressed to the Enel Group’s stakeholders and is designed to present the actions taken in pursuit of the Group’s sustainability goals and thus to respond to the legitimate expectations of all stakeholders. In contrast to previous years, the structure of the document has been revised to include a new initial chapter, the “At a Glance”, which provides a concise overview of the main topics, discussed in detail in each chapter of the document.
To the extent necessary to ensure an understanding of the Company’s activities, performance, results and impact, this document covers environmental, social, la- bour, human rights and anti-corruption and bribery topics that are material to Enel, in view of the Company’s activities and characteristics, according to the process de- scribed below (see the section “The 2019 materiality analysis”). The following table contains the areas required by Legislative Decree no. 254/16, with an indication of the specific chapter of the document in which they are discussed.
Methodological note. 
Information and in-depth analyses on the issues and indicators presented in this Report can be requested from:
Enel SpA. 
Innovability Function (Innovation and Sustainability)
Sustainability Planning and Performance Management. 
Viale Regina Margherita, 137 00198 Rome – Italy. 
Tel +39 06 8305 1. 
E-mail sustainability@enel.com. 
Web https://www.enel.com/it/ investors1 102-48 102-49 102-50 101 102-1 102-3 102-5 102-40 102-42 102-43 102-45 102-46 102-51 102-52 102-53 102-54 102-55 102-56 102-47. 
Sustainability Report At a Glance Performance indicators


237. 
Green Bond & Appendix. 
Methodological note. 
Methodological note ESG backbones Our pillars. 
TOPIC OF THE REPORT/DECREE. 
TOPIC OF THE MATERIALITY ANALYSIS. 
CHAPTER OF THE REPORT RISKS POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT MODEL. 
ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS. 
Environment Decarbonization of the energy mix Commitment to the fight against climate change “Sound governance” chapter “Commitment to the fight against climate change” chapter “Commitment to the fight against climate change” chapter. 
Environmental management Environmental sustainability “Environmental sustainability” chapter “Environmental sustainability” chapter. 
Social Engaging local communities Communities and value sharing “Sound governance” chapter “Communities and value sharing“ “Communities and value sharing“
Sustainable supply chain Sustainable supply chain “Sound governance” chapter “Sustainable supply chain” chapter “Sustainable supply chain” chapter. 
Employment and labour-related People management, development and motivation. 
Our people and their value “Sound governance” chapter “Our people and their value” chapter “Our people and their value” chapter. 
Occupational health and safety Occupational health and safety “Sound governance” chapter “Occupational health and safety” chapter “Occupational health and safety” chapter. 
Human rights Sound governance and fair corporate conduct. 
Sound governance “Sound governance” chapter “Sound governance” chapter. 
People management, development and motivation. 
Engaging local communities. 
Fight against corruption Sound governance and fair corporate conduct. 
Sound governance “Sound governance” chapter “Sound governance” chapter “Sound governance” chapter. 
How this document has been constructed. 
The Report has been prepared according to the GRI Stand- ards: Core option and the supplement dedicated to the Elec- tric Utilities sector issued by the GRI in 2013 (Electric Utilities. 
Sector Disclosures). In particular, the Global Reporting Initia- tive’s Sustainability Reporting Standards (2016) (GRI Stand- ards) have been considered; with effect from financial year 2018, Enel has also adopted the two new standards, GRI 403 – Occupational Health and Safety and GRI 303 – Water and. 
Effluents, issued in 2018.
The content formulation process has been based on the prin- ciples of relevance (“materiality”), stakeholder inclusivity, sustainability context and completeness of the data and in- formation: Enel reports information regarding its performance within the broader sustainability context, also discussed in a specific section (see the “At a Glance” chapter and the sec- tions “The pillars of our sustainable business model” and “ESG backbones“), including specific references to the Sus- tainable Development Goals (“SDGs”) in its objectives and


238 Sustainability Report 2019. 
The 2019 materiality analysis 102-40 102-46 102-47 103-1 progress towards them in order to provide full disclosure of all significant information during the reporting period and reliable es- timates for the future. With regard to the quality of the informa- tion reported, the principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability have been observed.
This Report is also compliant with the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness set out in AA1000APS (Ac- countAbility Principles Standard) issued in 2008 by AccountA- bility, an international applied research institution focusing on sustainability issues. With regard to the materiality principle, in particular, the depth in which the various subjects are dis-
The materiality analysis process is divided into five main steps, as shown in the chart below.
cussed in the Report has been determined according to their weight in the Group’s goals and strategies and their relevance for stakeholders, identified through a structured materiality anal- ysis process.
Finally, a reference to the United Nations SDGs has been includ- ed in the various chapters, in accordance with the instructions provided in the SDG Compass, the guide published in November 2015, developed by GRI, the UN Global Compact and the World. 
Business Council for Sustainable Development (“WBCSD”) to support companies in aligning their strategies with the SDGs and measuring and managing their contributions to these goals.
Stages of the process Results Objectives. 
Sustainability guidelines. 
AA1000APS Standard. 
Principle of inclusivity Principle of materiality. 
ISSUES’ TREE STAKEHOLDERS’ TREE STAKEHOLDERS’ MAPPING. 
ISSUES PLACED ALONG HORIZONTAL AXIS (X) OF THE MATERIALITY. 
MATRIX. 
ISSUES PLACED ALONG. 
VERTICAL AXIS (Y) OF THE MATERIALITY. 
MATRIX. 
Identification of stakeholder categories that are significant for the Company. 
Organization of stakeholders in a hierarchical structure, from general to specific. 
Assignment of priority to stakeholders on the basis of their relevance for the Company, in terms of dependence, influence and tension. 
Analysis of the results of stakeholder involvement initiatives in order to assess the priority they assign to the different issues. 
Assessment of the Company’s strategic positioning on the different issues. 
Identification of the stakeholders. 
Assignment of relevance to stakeholders. 
Assessment of the priorities assigned by the stakeholders to the issues. 
Assessment of priorities to the issues in corporate strategies. 
Identification of the issues. 
Identification of issues that are potentially significant for the stakeholders and Company. 
Organization of issues in a hierarchical structure, from general to specific


239. 
Green Bond & Appendix. 
Methodological note. 
Methodological note ESG backbones Our pillars. 
This process is aligned with the AA1000APS standard and responds to the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and. 
Responsiveness.
Data collection, aggregation and processing of information are managed using a dedicated IT system that is upgraded each year to ensure increasing traceability, share best practices for stakeholder engagement and monitoring and permit a degree of coverage consistent with the company’s organizational model. The system allows specific views to be obtained, not only at the level of the Group and individual companies, but also by Business Line/Company Function and individual asset (i.e., potential or actual operating site).
The Holding’s Sustainability Planning and Performance. 
Management unit plays a guidance and coordination role, providing guidelines and methodological support for the analysis conducted by the local personnel with the involvement of the stakeholders and key people at the company level. The results achieved at the level of the individual company and/ or country are then consolidated by the Holding Company to prepare the Group’s materiality matrix (see the section of the “At a Glance” chapter entitled “Materiality analysis” for detailed information on the results of the analysis).
The scope of the materiality analysis for 2019 has been further expanded to include the new “Enel X” Business. 
Line, together with increasing integration of the results of the application of CSV tools to the Group’s assets. In particular, in 2019 the analysis extended to 310 engagement initiatives, including 18 countries, 51 companies and 22 assets.
Identification of issues and stakeholders 102-40 102-46 102-47 103-1. 
Regarding the 2019 materiality analysis process, the issues and categories of stakeholders analysed were revised on the basis of indications received from the Company’s internal and external stakeholders.
The issues subject to analysis were defined on the basis of various aspects, including company policies and principles of conduct, stakeholder feedback initiatives, the topics of greatest interest to sustainability rating agencies, industry benchmarking studies and the Company’s strategic orien- tation.
The various units responsible for relations with stakehold- ers, involved in the analysis process each year, are tasked with identifying and updating the list of categories of rele- vant stakeholders to draw up a complete list of current and potential stakeholders and to ensure constant alignment with the sustainability context in which Enel operates.
The methodology adopted involves an annual update to the results achieved in the previous year and, every two years, an analysis to determine a possible revision of the issues and categories of stakeholders subject to analysis, to take account of any changes in the context in which the Compa- ny operates.


240 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Assignment of relevance to stakeholders 102-46 102-47 103-1 102-40 102-42 102-43. 
COMMUNICATION AND ENGAGEMENT CHANNELS AND TYPES. 
AVERAGE ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY BY CHANNEL/TYPE. 
FINANCIAL COMMUNITY. 
SUPPLIERS AND CONTRACTORS. 
CIVIL SOCIETY AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES. 
OUR PEOPLE INSTITUTIONS BUSINESS COMMUNITY CUSTOMERS MEDIA. 
Agents daily X. 
Mobile app ongoing X. 
Whistleblowing channel ongoing X X X. 
Web channel ongoing X X X X X. 
Press releases weekly X X X. 
Direct contacts daily X X X X X X. 
Forums monthly X X X X. 
Working groups monthly X X X X. 
Dedicated meetings weekly X X X. 
Investor Day once per year X. 
Informative interviews weekly X. 
Intranet ongoing X. 
Enel stores and commercial offices daily X. 
Newsletters every 2 weeks X. 
Company magazine every 2-3 months X. 
Roadshows 4 times per year X X. 
Social media ongoing X X X X. 
Surveys twice per year X X. 
The process provides the continuous and direct engagement of Company’s external and internal stakeholders, including its top managers, through one-to-one interviews, surveys and other tools.
In 2019 the process of identifying and prioritising categories of stakeholders involved the Company’s top management, which assessed the priority of the categories on the basis of a survey administered by the Holding’s Sustainability unit according to the following parameters: dependence (importance of the relationship for the stakeholder), influence (importance of the relationship for the Company) and tension (the timing aspect of the relationship).
In addition, the various units involved each year in the analysis process and those responsible for relations with stakeholders are tasked with engaging them according to the most appropri- ate methods in view of the communications channels (generic, specific and participatory), the type of relations with the group con- cerned and the context of reference.
The most relevant categories identified in the analysis and the respective communications and engagement channels are shown in the table on this page.


241. 
Green Bond & Appendix. 
Methodological note. 
Methodological note ESG backbones Our pillars. 
Assessment of the priorities assigned by the stakeholders to the issues 102-47 103-1 102-46 102-40 102-43. 
The aspects investigated within the context of the materi- ality analysis are, from the stakeholders’ perspective, the relative importance of each issue in their perceptions and the ‘direction’ of their expectations (expectations of en- gagement, rather than disengagement, by Enel), and, from the Company’s perspective, the level of the impact of the issues on its corporate strategies.
Since 2016 Enel has integrated the process of assessing the level of satisfaction of stakeholders’ expectations with regard to presidium of an issue by the Company: the re- sults achieved, compared with the stakeholder materiality analysis, provide an overview of stakeholders’ expecta- tions and help identify the topics on which the Company should focus.
During 2019, the results of numerous engagement ini- tiatives carried out by Enel focusing on Group’s relevant stakeholders, such as the financial community, national and international organizations, authorities, representative and trade associations, suppliers, customers, civil society and Enel’s people have been assessed. There was found to be increasing capitalization on feedback initiatives to mon- itor the results of operational management by the Com- pany and its Business Lines. In this regard, examples of this are the customer satisfaction surveys carried out by the various Market areas, the climate survey conducted by the Global People and Organization Function, the on- line survey addressed to suppliers by Global Procurement and the questionnaires for sustainability rating agencies ad- ministered by the Holding unit. Other sources considered in the analysis are complaints from customers, relations with analysts and investors, relations with representative and trade associations, institutional relations at the national and local level, trade union relations, media monitoring and opinion polls.
Each unit responsible for relations with stakeholders in the countries of presence seeks to engage an increasingly large number of stakeholders, while selecting those who are most relevant to the activities pertaining to the unit itself. In particular, in 2019 within the framework of the. 
Infrastructure and Networks Business Line, the Sustaina- bility unit in Brazil conducted engagement initiatives focus- ing above all on regulatory bodies and customers, whereas the Sustainability unit of Enel Chile focused on the use of questionnaires for investors and rating agencies. In some cases, where necessary, stakeholder engagement is car- ried out on an ad hoc basis for the performance of the materiality analysis and then used for the purposes of the. 
Report.


242 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Assessment of priorities to the issues in company strategies 103-1. 
The materiality of the various issues in Enel’s strategies has been assessed through the involvement of the various compa- ny Functions and has been submitted for review by the Chair- man and Chief Executive Officer. This analysis reflects the stra- tegic guidelines set by the 2020-2022 Strategic Plan, the goals of the Functions/Business Lines and the commitments made by the Group through its policies and rules of conduct. The aspect examined for the issues subject to analysis measures the level of the impact of the issues on company strategies.
In order to identify the Company’s positive and negative impacts on socio-economic development and on the envi- ronment in the countries in which it operates, as well as its contribution to sustainable development, an “Impact Evalua- tion” pilot project was launched in 2019. The project, which involved five countries1, was carried out by each local Sustain- ability unit, with the involvement of all Functions responsible for managing the issues subject to analysis, and included an assessment of the extent of the impact, in accordance with the main standards of reference; in addition, each issue was analysed according to its direct and indirect contribution to the. 
SDGs, in line with the commitment made by the Group, and 1 Spain, Chile, Columbia, Brazil and Russia.
observance of the management tools implemented to moni- tor those impacts.
In particular, the analysis conducted in Brazil provides an ex- planatory overview of the project described above. Indeed, with regard to one of the material issues, “Energy distribu- tion”, the Country concluded that the development of the network gives rise to several positive external impacts, such as improvement of service, the creation of new job opportu- nities, through the spread of smart meters, and the poten- tial reduction of possible environmental incidents thanks to a more efficient and modern network. However, this issue also entails negative impacts, such as possible workplace incidents related to network development activities, and the potential loss of biodiversity due to the pruning operations.
In addition, during 2019 the “Actual Response” project, launched in 2018, was developed. This project involved nine countries and aimed to collect and elaborate the measures taken by Group companies to manage the highest priority issues, such as risk analysis, definition of targets and the study of the performances achieved, in order to conduct a comparative assessment of the Company’s level of presidi- um on these issues.
Reconciliation of the issues of the materiality analysis and GRI Standards 102-40 102-46 102-47 103-1. 
The joint analysis of the stakeholder and Company aspects, through its representation in the materiality matrix present- ed in the “Materiality analysis” section of the “At a Glance” chapter, enabled an assessment of the degree of “align- ment” or “misalignment” between the priority of action assigned by the stakeholders to the various issues and the degree of commitment that the Group has made to each of them. The following table contains the codes for the topics included in the materiality analysis as established in the GRI. 
Standards or the “Aspects” of the GRI supplement dedicat- ed to the electric utilities sector (“Electric Utilities Sector. 
Disclosures”) of reference, along with an indication of the context internal and external to the organization and the lim- itations on the scope.


243. 
Green Bond & Appendix. 
Methodological note. 
Methodological note ESG backbones Our pillars. 
ESG CATEGORY 2019 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT ISSUE. 
GRI STANDARDS OR ELECTRIC UTILITIES SECTOR DISCLOSURE ASPECT. 
INTERNAL BOUNDARY. 
EXTERNAL BOUNDARY. 
REPORTING LIMITATIONS ON INTERNAL BOUNDARY. 
REPORTING LIMITATIONS ON EXTERNAL BOUNDARY. 
Business & Governance. 
Economic and financial value creation GRI 201: Economic Performance Group --
Sound governance and fair corporate conduct. 
GRI 205: Anti-corruption. 
Group -GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior. 
GRI 406: Non-discrimination. 
GRI 415: Public Policy. 
Decarbonization of the energy mix. 
GRI 201: Economic Performance. 
Group -GRI 305: Emissions. 
System Efficiency. 
Customer focus. 
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling. 
Group -GRI 418: Customer Privacy. 
Provision of Information. 
Ecosystems and platforms1 Research & Development Group --
Energy distribution. 
Access. 
Group -System Efficiency. 
Demand side management. 
Innovation and digital transformation Research & Development Group --
Environmental Environmental management. 
GRI 301: Materials. 
Group --
GRI 302: Energy. 
GRI 303: Water. 
GRI 304: Biodiversity. 
GRI 305: Emissions. 
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste. 
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 1 It includes the following topics: “New technologies and solutions for houses and apartment buildings”; “New technologies and solutions for cities”; “New technologies and solutions for industries” and “Electric mobility”.


244 Sustainability Report 2019. 
ESG CATEGORY 2019 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT ISSUE. 
GRI STANDARDS OR ELECTRIC UTILITIES SECTOR DISCLOSURE ASPECT. 
INTERNAL BOUNDARY. 
EXTERNAL BOUNDARY. 
REPORTING LIMITATIONS ON INTERNAL BOUNDARY. 
REPORTING LIMITATIONS ON EXTERNAL BOUNDARY. 
Social. 
People management, development and motivation. 
GRI 401: Employment. 
Group -- -
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations. 
GRI 404: Training and Education. 
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity. 
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining. 
GRI 408: Child Labor. 
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor. 
GRI 410: Security Practices. 
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment. 
Occupational health and safety GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety Group Suppliers -Reporting partially extended to suppliers. 
Engaging local communities. 
GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples. 
Group --
GRI 413: Local Communities. 
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety. 
Disaster/Emergency Planning and Response. 
Access. 
Sustainable supply chain. 
GRI 204: Procurement Practices. 
Group Suppliers -
Reporting not extended to suppliers. 
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment. 
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment


245. 
Green Bond & Appendix. 
Methodological note. 
Methodological note ESG backbones Our pillars. 
The reporting process. 
On the basis of the results of the materiality analysis, it was possible to define the structure of the 2019 Sustainability Re- port by focusing more on the material topics, to which spe- cific detailed chapters have been devoted. Similarly, the level of materiality of issues, which in turn have been divided into detailed sub-issues, influenced the depth in which to discuss the individual subjects and to report on the relevant GRI indi- cators (GRI Standards and Electric Utilities Sector Disclosure) in order to qualify as “in accordance” Core option, as well as the choice of the tools best suited to representing them (2019. 
Annual Report and appended reports), to which reference has been made for the discussion or further examination of more specific topics relating to economic or governance per- formance. The materiality analysis also formed the basis for defining Enel’s sustainability goals for the 2020-2022 period, as illustrated in the Sustainability Plan (see the “At a Glance” chapter, “The 2020-2022 Sustainability Plan”).
The GRI Context Index, included in the Appendix, contains references to the 2019 Sustainability Report and the Group’s other reporting instruments. Please also consult the website www.enel.com for further information, for example regard- ing innovation projects or the activities of Enel’s foundations and the 2019 Informe de Sostenibilidad by Endesa and Enel. 
Américas for additional details concerning initiatives dedicat- ed to customers and local communities in Spain and South. 
America.
Drafting and assurance 102-56. 
The process of reporting and monitoring the Key Performance. 
Indicators (“KPIs”) relevant to sustainability involves the Holding, with regard to transversal issues, and all Group Business Lines,
Functions and companies for issues and indicators specific to the various sectors of activity.
Those responsible for collecting, verifying and processing the rel- evant KPIs are identified within the units involved. The Sustain- ability Planning and Performance Management unit, which is a part of the Innovability Function, is responsible for consolidating information and coordinating the entire process of preparing the 2019 Sustainability Report.
The Report was analysed and assessed by Enel’s Control and. 
Risks Committee and Corporate Governance and Sustainabili- ty Committee on April 1, 2020 and approved by the Board of. 
Directors on April 2. The document will then be presented to the General Shareholders’ Meeting together with the Group’s. 
Annual Report.
This Report was subject to a limited audit by an independent company, EY SpA, as the auditor also engaged to audit the Enel. 
Group’s Annual Report. The limited audit was conducted in ac- cordance with the international standard ISAE 3000 (Revised)2 and, accordingly, the Code of Ethics for Professional Account- ants, including professional independence and verification of the absence of conflicts of interest that may affect the ethical prin- ciples of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and dili- gence, confidentiality and professional conduct. The audit report, which contains a detailed description of the principles adopted, activities performed and conclusions reached, is appended.
In addition, a report on the green bond, also subject to an audit by EY SpA according to the criteria indicated in the standard ISAE 3000, has been appended to this Report, together with the rele- vant audit report.
The GHG Inventory Statements were audited by DNV GL, with a reasonable level of certainty for Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions, as limited to the sale of natural gas, and with a limited level of certainty for the other Scope 3 emissions included within the scope of application of the inventory. The audit was conduct- ed according to the standard ISO 4064-3 for the compliance of greenhouse gas (GHG) inventories with the WBCSD/WRI Cor- porate Accounting and Reporting Standard (GHG Protocol).
2 International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 revised, “Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”.


246 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Report boundaries 102-50 102-56 102-49 102-10 102-45 102-48. 
The information and data presented in the Report refer to. 
Enel SpA and the companies within the scope of line-by-line consolidation at December 31, 2019, in accordance with the. 
Group’s financial consolidation scope. In addition to the line-by- line consolidation scope, the document also includes the data and information regarding the company Asociación Nuclear As- có-Vandellós II AIE (ANA CNVII AIE), to which the two Spanish nuclear plants of Ascó and Vandellós are attributed. The com- pany is considered a joint operation under accounting standard. 
IFRS 113. In fact, it has been included in the Group’s scope of financial consolidation according to the proportional method in order to ensure a fair representation of its impacts, including in this Report, as it constitutes a material Group entity. The sole exception to the line-by-line consolidation scope are the com- panies acquired in 2019, for which, on the basis of prevailing practice, as also represented in the Consob report of January 19, 20184, it was decided to begin consolidation, with regard to some of the areas covered in this document, with effect from 2020, in the light of the reduced acquisition period. The areas of exclusion have been indicated directly in the specific chapters.
In particular, the main organizational changes affecting the. 
Enel Group in 2019 were: > the sale of 100% of Mercure Srl, the company that owns the Mercure biomass plant; > the sale, through the renewable energy subsidiary Enel. 
Green Power Brasil Participações Ltda, of 100% of three renewable energy plants operating in Brazil; 3 A “joint operation” is a joint-control arrangement in which the parties that hold joint control have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities associated with the arrangement.
4 Illustrative report on the results of the consultation and the consequences for regulation, the activities of companies and operators and the interests of investors and savers.
> the sale, on October 1, 2019, of the coal power plant of. 
Reftinskaya GRES in Russia, sold by Enel Russia to JSC. 
Kuzbassenergo5; > the acquisition by Enel Green Power SpA, through the US renewable energy subsidiary EGPNA (now ENA), of 100% of seven companies that own operating renewable source power plants, from Enel Green Power North America Re- newable Energy Partners (EGPNA REP), a joint venture 50% owned by EGPNA and the remaining 50% by Gener- al Electric Capital’s Energy Financial Services; > the acquisition by Enel Green Power SpA, through the. 
US renewable energy subsidiary EGPNA (now ENA), of. 
Tradewind Energy, a company that develops renewables projects based in the United States; > the acquisition by Enel X Italia of 100% of YouSave SpA, an Italian company operating in the energy services sector that provides assistance to large energy consumers; > the acquisition by Enel X Srl of 55% of PayTipper, a pay- ment services provider that offers its customers financial services that make daily life easier.
For more detailed information on the changes that have oc- curred, see the sections of the 2019 Annual Report “Main changes in the scope of consolidation” and “Significant events in 2019”. Where associated companies (which in the. 
Annual Report are measured according to the equity method) and other entities over which Enel exercises a significant influ- ence (including joint ventures) have significant impacts, they have been included in the calculation of the data, in proportion to. 
Enel’s equity interest, and cited in the text. For the details of the companies within the scope of consolidation, refer to the 2019. 
Annual Report.
5 The sale of the R-GRES asset involves the removal from the scope of consolidation of the relative capacity, generation, EBITDA and 25 plant personnel that were transferred to the purchaser; they will remain as Enel Russia until all the licences are transferred to the new purchaser: the plant personnel and the relative data and KPI related to their management, the management and relative safety rates related to plant personnel, the management of the Opex contracts for ordinary maintenance and therefore the relative contractor data (also in terms of injury rates), the environmental and plant licenses that will gradually be transferred to the purchaser. The Capex contracts have been taken on by the purchaser, therefore including the relative data regarding the contractors and safety rates. The exclusion of Reftinskaya from the scope involves a significant impact also on the greenhouse gas emissions and other Group environmental data.


247. 
Green Bond & Appendix. 
Methodological note. 
Methodological note ESG backbones Our pillars. 
In this Statement, the terms “Corporate”, “Holding Com- pany” and “Parent Company” refer to Enel SpA, whereas “Group”, “Enel” and “Company” refer to Enel SpA and its subsidiaries.
Various deviations from the KPIs and information included in the 2018 Sustainability Report are the result of changes in the Group’s scope of consolidation. The effects of changes in the scope of consolidation, together with any significant changes or limitations of the scope or methods of calculat- ing individual indicators compared with 2018, are expressly indicated in the text and/or the Appendix, along with the ef- fects on the relevant data6.
See the notes in the tables in the Appendix for all further de- tails regarding adjustments with respect to already published 6
data, calculation methods, assumptions or significant limita- tions of indicators.
The data have been thoroughly calculated on the basis of the results of Enel’s accounting, non-accounting and other information systems, and validated by the persons respon- sible in each case. The data determined through the use of estimates and related calculation method have been ex- pressly indicated. In the comparison of the data over time, it should be noted that differences between 2019 and 2018, in absolute and percent terms, have been calculated consid- ering decimal places in some cases not visible in the printed document. This principle applies also to totals. In the tables containing quantitative data, percent changes in excess of |100%| are indicated by “-”.
Performance indicators. 
Key sustainability performance indicators are presented from page 275 to page 324 and form an integral part of this. 
Sustainability Report. In order to facilitate a reading of the performance indicators in conjunction with the qualitative information presented in the document, the quantitative in- dicators will be reported in a separate booklet in the printed copy. This booklet will be contained in the pocket on the third page of the cover.
Following reorganisation, since 2019 Costa Rica, Panama and Guatemala have passed from the North America to the Latin America scope. The 2018 and 2017 data provided in the Appendix have been recalculated to permit comparison with 2019.


248 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Units of measure ,000 thousands ,000 d thousands of days ,000 h thousands of hours ,000 t thousands of tons % percent bn m3 billions of cubic metres cent euro euro cents dd days g/kWh grams per kilowatt hour g/kWh eq grams per equivalent kilowatt hour7. 
GBq per unit gigabequerels per unit GW gigawatts GWh gigawatt hours h hours h/per cap hours per capita i index kg kilograms km kilometres kWh kilowatt hours kWh eq equivalent kilowatt hours7 kWh/t kilowatt hours per ton kWp peak kilowatts l/kWh litres per kilowatt hour l/kWh eq litres per equivalent kilowatt hours7 mil millions mil A4 eq millions of equivalent A4 sheets mil euros millions of euros mil h millions of hours mil l millions of litres mil m3 millions of cubic metres mil t millions of tons mil t eq millions of equivalent tons min minutes MJ/kWh eq megajoules per equivalent kilowatt hours7. 
ML megalitres Mtoe millions of tons of oil equivalent MW megawatts MWh megawatt hours no. number sec seconds t tons TBq per unit terabecquerels per unit TOE tons of oil equivalent TJ terajoules TWh Terawatt hours years years 7 Corresponding to the sum of energy and heat production.
Acronyms. 
BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand. 
BoD Board of Directors. 
CCGT Combined Cycle Gas Turbine. 
CERT Cyber Emergency Readiness Team. 
COD Chemical Oxygen Demand. 
CSR Corporate Social Responsibility. 
CSV Creating Shared Value. 
EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Tax. 
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and. 
Amortization. 
EBT Earnings Before Tax. 
EGP Enel Green Power. 
EIB European Investment Bank. 
EPS Earnings per Share. 
ESG Environmental Social & Governance. 
HV High Voltage. 
IPO Initial Public Offering. 
IRAP Imposta Regionale sulle Attività Produttive (Regional. 
Business Tax)
IRES Imposta sul Reddito delle Società (Corporate Income. 
Tax)
LBG London Benchmarking Group. 
LV Low Voltage. 
MV Medium Voltage. 
PCBs Polychlorinated Biphenyls. 
R&D Research & Development. 
RT Remote Training. 
S&P Standard & Poor’s. 
SCIGR Internal Control and Risk Management System. 
SDG Sustainable Development Goal. 
SRI Socially Responsible Investor. 
TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure. 
TSR Total Shareholder Return. 
UN United Nations


249 Methodological note. 
EY S.p.A. Sede Legale: Via Lombardia, 31 - 00187 Roma Capitale Sociale Euro 2.525.000,00 i.v. Iscritta alla S.O. del Registro delle Imprese presso la C.C.I.A.A. di Roma Codice fiscale e numero di iscrizione 00434000584 - numero R.E.A. 250904 P.IVA 00891231003 Iscritta al Registro Revisori Legali al n. 70945 Pubblicato sulla G.U. Suppl. 13 - IV Serie Speciale del 17/2/1998 Iscritta all’Albo Speciale delle società di revisione Consob al progressivo n. 2 delibera n.10831 del 16/7/1997 A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited. 

EY S.p.A. Via Lombardia, 31 00187 Roma. 
Tel: +39 06 324751 Fax: +39 06 324755504 ey.com 


 

 

o o
o 250 Sustainability Report 2019


 

- -
251 Methodological note


 
Enel S.p.A. Certificate of verification by the DNV GL Certification Body of the ENEL Group’s greenhouse gas emissions reported in the 2019 Sustainability Report. The verification was conducted by DNV GL in accordance with ISO 14064-3 with a reasonable level of guarantee for all Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions reported by the Group. Scope 3 emissions were verified with a limited level of guarantee, excepted for Scope 3 emissions associated with the use of natural gas sold in the retail market, which was verified with a reasonable level of guarantee.
252 Sustainability Report 2019


 
Place and date: 
For the issuing DNV GL office:
Vimercate 8 April 2020. 
DNV GL – Business Assurance. 
Zeno Beltrami Management Representative. 
Lack of fulfillness with the conditions laid down in the certification contract may render this certificate not valid DNV GL Business Assurance Italia S.r.l. - Via Energy Park, 14 - 20871 Vimercate (MB) - Italy – Tel. 039.68 99 905 – www.dnvgl.com/it. 
Page 1 of 3. 
VERIFICATION STATEMENT. 
Statement No: 10000328013-Assessment Services-DNV GL-ITA. 
First Issuance Date: 8 April 2020. 
Statement Validity: 8 April 2020 – 7 April 2021. 
DNV GL Business Assurance has verified, in accordance with the Standard ISO 14064-3, the Greenhouse Gas (hereinafter “GHG”) emissions of the organization ENEL SpA Viale Regina Margherita,137 00198 Rome reported in the 2019 Enel Sustainability Report and are in line with the GHG inventory descriptive document entitled "Quantificazione e rendicontazione delle emissioni di gas a effetto serra secondo lo standard corporativo ‘The Greenhouse Gas Protocol’ del anno 2019" ( hereinafter “the GHG Inventory Report”) issued in April 2020 by ENEL SpA using a financial control consolidation approach and relative to the direct and the indirect activities below reported carried out worldwide by the Group companies described in the aforementioned GHG Inventory Report. Based on our verification process procedures, DNV GL states that: - the aforementioned GHG Inventory Report has been issued by ENEL SpA in compliance with the revised edition of “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol” corporate standard. The report covers the reporting period from the 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 with the following results (values rounded to tons): - Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and Scope 3 emission associated to use of natural gas sold in the retail market provide, in DNV GL opinion and with the qualification listed in the annex of this Statement, a balanced representation of GHG emissions associated to the reported activities of the organisation in the reporting period. - with regards to the Scope 3 emissions not associated to use of natural gas sold in the retail market, nothing has come to our attention showing that what reported by the organization is not a balanced representation of GHG emissions associated to the reported activities carried out by third parties in the reporting period 253 Methodological note


GREEN BOND REPORT & APPENDIX 4.


256 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Enel Finance International NV, the Group’s financial company controlled by Enel. 
SpA, placed three green bonds on the European market in January 2017 (1.25 bil- lion euros), 2018 (1.25 billion euros) and 2019 (1 billion euros) for a total of 3.50 billion euros. The green bonds are for institutional investors and are guaranteed by. 
Enel SpA. The net issuance proceeds – carried out under the medium-term bond issue program of Enel and Enel Finance International (Euro Medium-Term Notes. 
Program - EMTN) – were used to finance eligible projects according to the “Green. 
Bond Principles” categories, published by the ICMA (International Capital Market. 
Association). In particular, the proceeds were used to finance: > new projects for the development, construction and repowering of generation plants from renewable sources (green bond emission in 2017 and 2019); > new projects for the development, construction, repowering and refinancing of generation plants from renewable sources as well as projects for transmission, distribution and smart grids (green bond emission in 2018).
In order to facilitate the transparency and quality of the green bonds issued, the. 
Enel Group has prepared and published specific “Green Bond Frameworks” for each year of emission, whose compliance with the reference principles has been confirmed by an external advisor, Vigeo Eiris, who issued the so-called “second par- ty opinion”. Within the frameworks, the categories relating to eligible projects are aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations (UN SDG), in particular Goals 7, 9, 11 and 131.
The reference documents for the three emissions are available on the Enel Group’s website (https://www.enel.com/investors/fixed-income/main-programs/green-bond).
The Group is among the first companies in the world having set up a “Green Bond. 
Committee” with the aim of selecting projects and monitoring the progress of their development. The reporting document hereof, published for the third time in 2019, meets Enel’s commitment undertaken at the time of the bond issuance to report annually on the use of proceeds, on the environmental benefits deriving from the projects financed and on further ESG metrics linked to these projects.
1 SDG 7 “Affordable and clean energy”; SDG 9 “Industry, innovation and infrastructure”; SDG 11 “Sustainable cities and communities”; SDG 13 “Climate action”.
Green Bond Report


257 Green Bond Report. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Reporting criteria. 
In order to facilitate transparency and facilitate understand- ing of reporting over the years, the report is structured as follows: > summary table of 2017, 2018 and 2019 emissions with indication of the installed capacity and of the CO2 avoided; > 2017 green bond reporting with evidence of projects relating to renewable plants. Seven plants also contri- bute towards the allocation of the proceeds of the 2019 green bond following new investments (Capex) that were made; > 2018 green bond reporting with evidence of projects related to: > renewable plants, three of which that contribute towards the allocation of the proceeds of the 2019 green bond due to new investments (Capex) that were made; > “refinancing” of renewable plants due to the repla- cement of previous credit lines; > investment activities relating to the business area “Infrastructure and Networks”; > 2019 green bond reporting with evidence of the projects relating to renewable plants, 10 of which were also subject to reporting for the 2017 and 2018 green bonds as described above.
The indicators were determined in accordance with the “Green Bond Framework” principles and shown in the table based on the type of project and the year of emission of the green bonds.
Table A “Financial indicators” shows: > the capacity and amount of the “foreign currency in- vestment” approved by the Board of Directors and/or the Investment Committee, and communicated to the financial market through specific press releases; > the value of the “investment in euros”, calculated by considering the average exchange rate for the years 2017-2019 (for projects defined in 2017), the average exchange rate for the years 2018-2020 (for projects de- fined in 2018) and/or the average exchange rate for the years 2019-2021 (for projects defined in 2018) of Enel’s. 
Industrial Plan; > the share of the green bond proceeds allocated to the project as the difference between the total capitalized costs as at December 31, 2017, December 31, 2018 and/or December 31, 2019 and the amount of third-party financing associated to the specific project2. The amoun- ts of proceeds allocated to the projects in 2017, 2018 and 2019 respectively were used in the same years; > the date of entry into operation corresponding to the time when the plant produced the first kWh.
Table B “ESG indicators” shows the environmental benefit in terms of CO2 avoided (actual or expected). In particular with reference to: renewable projects: > the quantity of CO2 avoided (both actual and expected) is determined by multiplying production (actual or expected) by the emission factor linked to the specific thermoelectric energy production of the country in whi- ch the plant is located (emission factors source: Enerda- ta - February 25, 2020 release); > the share of production (both actual and expected) and the related amount of CO2 avoided attributable to the gre- en bond, calculated as the share of green bond proceeds allocated to the project on the total investment (applicable only to projects for which there is a new Capex for 2019); > for projects relating to generation plants from renewable sources, the cumulative value of actual production and the relative CO2 avoided for all years of reporting of the green bond report is also shown (with the exception of the repowering plants whose share of production can- not be separated from the rest of the plant);
Infrastructure and Networks projects (among others): > the cabling ratio, determined by the ratio between the length of the cable lines and the total length of the lines.
The increase in this index over time is due to an increase in the length of the overhead and underground cable line to the detriment of bare conductors; in particular, the main environmental benefits concern the containment of plant cutting activities and a drastic reduction in the risk of electrocution for birds; 2 If the same company is involved with the implementation of several projects, proceeds are allocated to the specific project based on the capacity.


258 Sustainability Report 2019 > network automation, which corresponds to the ratio between RCP (Remote Controlled Point) and medium/ low-voltage equipment; > technical network losses, mainly related to the characte- ristics/functions of the network. These losses are usually calculated using statistical models or benchmarks. A re- duction in technical network losses results in a reduction in the energy to be generated and a consequent reduction in emissions and consumption of raw materials; > the elimination of oil equipment with PCB reduces the risk of contamination of a compound no longer in pro- duction since the 1980s and classified as ecotoxic and bioaccumulable; > the calculation of CO2 avoided. The energy saving esti- mation model takes into account: the number of low- loss transformers replacing traditional transformers; operations on the MV network; network upgrading me- asures; the new transformer rooms, which involve opti- mizing the grid in terms of reducing low-voltage lines in favor of higher-voltage ones.
Table C “Further ESG indicators” shows, where possible and appropriate3, as envisaged in the “second party opin- ion”4 the following indicators for the renewable projects: > water consumption related to the data reported in the period of construction of the plant or the period fol- lowing its entry into operation. In the case of plants 3 Projects relating to renewable plants with a capacity of more than 20 MW are considered to be relevant.
4 The indicator “Material reused/recycled after revamping” is not applicable, as the proceeds of the green bond were not used to finance revamping projects in 2017, 2018 and 2019.
that started operating after September 30, 2019, the water consumption of the construction site is reported, in other cases (plants operating before September 30, 2019) the water consumption in operation; > projects for protecting biodiversity promoted by Enel in connection to the operation of the plant; > the cases in which the site stopped its operations (plant shutdown) due to environmental management issues and their impact; > fatal accidents or “High Consequence” injuries to Enel people5; > activities and projects carried out to support local commu- nities in the areas surrounding the plant. The indicator rela- ted to the number of beneficiaries of these projects refers to the people involved by such activity or project.
The above indicators in Table C, with the exception of water consumption and plant shutdown due to environmental issues, also refer to Infrastructure and Networks projects.
Table D “Overall information” refers to the criteria, indica- tors, overall information and approach chosen by Enel to de- velop the projects financed through the proceeds of the bond.
The data have been thoroughly calculated on the basis of the results of Enel’s accounting, non-accounting and other infor- mation systems, and validated by the persons responsible in each case. The data determined through the use of estimates and related calculation method have been expressly indicated.
5 Sum of: injuries that resulted in more than 6 months’ absence from work as at December 31, 2019; injuries that are still open and considered severe (initial prognosis > 30 days) as at December 31, 2019; injuries categorised as “Life Changing Accidents” (LCAs), regardless of the resulting days of absence from work.
GB emission Area of investment Allocated GB proceeds Installed capacity1 (MW) CO2 avoided (t) 2017 Renewables 1,237 mil euros 3,319 9,165,814 2018 1,240 mil euros of which new renewable projects Renewables 575 mil euros 1,878 1,712,117 of which new Infrastructure and Networks projects I&N 665 mil euros n.a. 26,287 2019 985.6 mil euros 734 n.a.
of which new projects identified in 2019 Renewables 71.1 mil euros 734 n.a.
of which new Capex for 2018 projects Renewables 342.5 mil euros n.a. n.a.
of which new Capex for 2017 projects Renewables 572 mil euros n.a. n.a.
1 29.4 MW were installed for the Delfina plant in 2019, augmenting the 180 MW of 2018, while 33 MW were installed for the Cerro Pabellón plant, augmenting the 48 MW of 2018.


259 Green Bond Report. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix 259 Green Bond Report. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Country Project name Technology Status Capacity (MW) Commercial operation date. 
Investment (value in currency) GB proceeds allocated in 2017 (mil euros)
GB proceeds allocated in 2019 (mil euros) (2) Currency Value in currency (mil)
Equivalent in euro (mil) (1)
USA Red Dirt Wind In Operation 300 nov-17 USD 420 378 77 -
USA Thunder Ranch Wind In Operation 298 nov-17 USD 435 392 132 -
USA Hilltopper Wind In Operation 185 nov-18 USD 325 293 166 -
USA Stillwater Solar II Solar In Operation 27 may-18 USD 40 36 48 -
USA Woods Hill Solar In Operation 25 dec-17 USD 44 41 36 -
USA Rattlesnake Creek Wind In Operation 320 dec-18 USD 430 387 204 -
USA Rock Creek Wind In Operation 300 oct-17 USD 500 450 73 -
BRAZIL Horizonte MP Solar In Operation 103 feb-18 USD 110 99 43 -
BRAZIL Delfina Wind In Operation 209 aug-17 USD 440 364 33 -
CHILE Cerro Pabellón Geothermal In Operation 81 aug-17 USD 420 347 57 -
CHILE Sierra Gorda Wind In Operation 112 dec-16 USD 215 194 17 -
PERU Wayra Wind In Operation 132 mar-18 USD 165 149 82 -
PERU Rubi Solar In Operation 180 nov-17 USD 170 153 68 -
ITALY Various projects (3)
Biomass/ Geothermal/ Hydroelectric 35 EUR 129 130 70 -
CANADA Riverview Wind Under Construction 115 apr-20. 
USD 170 143 8 81. 
CANADA Castle Rock Ridge 2 Wind Under Construction 31 feb-20 2 23. 
MEXICO Magdalena 2 Solar In Operation 220 sep-19 USD 165 136 9 112. 
MEXICO Amistad II Wind In Operation 100 dec-19 USD 115 97 22 55. 
MEXICO Amistad III Wind Under Construction 100 feb-20 USD 104 86 11 59. 
MEXICO Amistad IV Wind Under Construction 149 apr-20 USD 149 123 13 50. 
MEXICO Dolores Wind Under Construction 244 mar-20 USD 280 235 36 192. 
PANAMA Estrella Solar Solar In Operation 8 aug-18 USD 8 7 5 -
ZAMBIA Ngonye Solar In Operation 34 mar-19 USD 40 34 10 -
ITALY Various projects (4) Geothermal/ Hydroelectric 11 EUR 43 36 14 -
Total 1,237 572. 
Table A - Financial indicators (1) Indicative value in euros (EUR), although the investment in US dollars (USD) applies where present. The exchange rate used for projects allocated in the 2017 green bond is 1.11 USD/EUR, for projects allocated in the 2018 green bond is 1.19 USD/EUR whereas for projects whose investment value has been updated − including those with the new Capex identified in GB 2019 − the exchange rate is 1.21.
(2) Additional proceeds were allocated for some renewable projects that were already identified in the 2017 and 2018 green bond, for which new capitalized costs emerged. (3) Aggregate data related to 26 small sized Italian projects. The technologies involved are biomass, geothermal and hydroelectric.
(4) Aggregate data related to 8 small sized Italian projects. The technologies involved are geothermal and hydroelectric.
Green Bond 2017 Renewable projects


260 Sustainability Report 2019 260 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Country Project name 2019 production (GWh) (1)
CO2 avoided 2019 (t) 2017, 2018 and 2019 production (GWh) 2017, 2018 and 2019 CO2 avoided (t) 2019 production attributable to GB (GWh) 2019 CO2 avoided attributable to GB (t)
Expected annual production (GWh)(2)
Expected CO2 avoided (t)
Expected annual production attributable to GB (GWh)
Expected CO2 avoided attributable to GB (t)
USA Red Dirt 1,046 690,638 2,093 1,399,240 --
USA Thunder Ranch 1,157 763,695 2.280 1,523,630 --
USA Hilltopper 604 398,343 604 398,343 --
USA Stillwater Solar II 39 25,917 55 36,681 --
USA Woods Hill 24 15,663 47 31,082 --
USA Rattlesnake Creek 1.031 680,587 1,031 680,587 --
USA Rock Creek 1,124 741,766 2,205 1,473,431 --
BRAZIL Horizonte MP 196 108,721 349 196,661 --
BRAZIL Delfina 870 481,827 1,985 1,102,770 --
CHILE Cerro Pabellón 192 141,887 467 356,016 --
CHILE Sierra Gorda 357 264,246 1,015 772,868 --
PERU Wayra 581 283,109 1,052 517,562 --
PERU Rubi 422 205,579 844 415,771 --
ITALY Various projects (3) 15 7,053 378 187,485 - --
CANADA Riverview n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. - - 449 305,512 254 173,052. 
CANADA Castle Rock Ridge 2 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. - - 109 73,957 17 11,895. 
MEXICO Magdalena 2 46 25,651 46 25,651 38 21,125 --
MEXICO Amistad II n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. - - 429 240,068 243 136,121. 
MEXICO Amistad III n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. - - 426 238,336 292 163,510. 
MEXICO Amistad IV n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. - - 618 345,893 251 140,607. 
MEXICO Dolores n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. - - 1,040 582,232 850 475,696. 
PANAMA Estrella Solar 9 4,976 12 7,166 - --
ZAMBIA Ngonye 35 34,902 35 34,902 --
ITALY Various projects(4) 9 4,477 12 5,966 --
Table B - ESG indicators n.a. not applicable (1) For projects entered into operation by September 30, 2019, the actual production data are reported and consequently the amount of CO2 avoided.
(2) For projects entered into operation after September 30, 2019 or which have not yet entered into operation, the expected annual production data and the expected amount of CO2 avoided are reported.
(3) Aggregate data related to 26 small sized Italian projects. The technologies involved are biomass, geothermal and hydroelectric. The share of production for only repowering cannot be separated from the rest of the plant because it is not possible to precisely determine the share of energy fed to the network only due to the increase in power. (4) Aggregate data related to 8 small sized Italian projects. The technologies involved are geothermal and hydroelectric. The share of production for only repowering cannot be separated from the rest of the plant because it is not possible to precisely determine the share of energy fed to the network only due to the increase in power.
Green Bond 2017 Renewable projects


261 Green Bond Report. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix 261 Green Bond Report 261 Green Bond Report. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Country Project name Water consumption (m3)
Actions to protect/restore biodiversity (no.)
Plant shutdown or site stop due to environmental issues (no.)
Injuries (fatal and “High Consequence”) (no.)
Social actions (no.) Beneficiaries of social projects (no.)
USA Red Dirt - - - --
USA Thunder Ranch - 2 - - 1 15. 
USA Hilltopper - 1 - - --
USA Stillwater Solar II - - - 3 1,600. 
USA Woods Hill - - - 1 365. 
USA Rattlesnake Creek - 1 - - 2 1,050. 
USA Rock Creek - 1 - - 5 9,586. 
BRAZIL Horizonte MP 485 (1) 2 - - --
BRAZIL Delfina - 1 - - 6 9,103. 
CHILE Cerro Pabellón - 6 - - 11 1,637. 
CHILE Sierra Gorda - 1 - - --
PERU Wayra - 1 - - 6 117. 
PERU Rubi - - - 5 131. 
ITALY Various projects(3) - - - 4 2,300. 
CANADA Riverview - 7 - - 1 80. 
CANADA Castle Rock Ridge 2 156 (2) 4 - - 1 34. 
MEXICO Magdalena 2 42,853 (2) 1 - - --
MEXICO Amistad II 7,601 (2) 1 - - 3 1,396 MEXICO Amistad III 724,791 (2) 2 - -
MEXICO Amistad IV 13,913 (2) 1 - -
MEXICO Dolores - 1 - - 3 2,959. 
PANAMA Estrella Solar - - - 1 46. 
ZAMBIA Ngonye - - - --
ITALY Various projects(4) 3 - - --
Table C - Further ESG indicators Green Bond 2017 Renewable projects n.a. not applicable (1) For plant entered into operation by September 30, 2019 the figures refer to water consumption for industrial use related to operation phase. (2) For plant not yet entered into operation by September 30, 2019 the figures refer to water consumption for industrial use related to under construction phase. (3) Aggregate data related to 26 small sized Italian projects. The technologies involved are biomass, geothermal and hydroelectric. (4) Aggregate data related to 8 small sized Italian projects. The technologies involved are geothermal and hydroelectric.


262 Sustainability Report 2019 262 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Country Project name Technology Status Capacity (MW) Commercial operation date. 
Investment (value in currency) GB proceeds allocated in 2018 (mil euros)
GB proceeds allocated in 2019 (mil euros) (2) Currency Value in currency (mil)
Equivalent in euro (mil) (1)
USA Diamond Vista Wind In Operation 300 dec-18 USD 400 336 100 -
USA Fenner Repowering Wind In Operation 29 dec-18 USD 29 24 21 -
USA High Lonesome Wind In Operation 501 dec-18 USD 720 595 81 75. 
USA Roadrunner Solar Under Construction 497 jun-20 USD 436 366 30 141. 
GERMANY Cremzow Other In Operation 22 feb-19 USD 17 17 9 -
GREECE Kafireas Wind In Operation 154 oct-19 USD 300 300 64 126. 
COLOMBIA El Paso Solar In Operation 86 oct-19 USD 70 59 54 -
USA Aurora Solar In Operation 150 jun-17 USD 290 244 181 -
USA Little Elk Wind In Operation 74 dec-15 USD 130 107 5 -
USA Chisholm View II Wind In Operation 65 dec-16 USD 90 76 29 -
Total 575 342.5. 
Table A - Financial indicators (1)
Table B - ESG indicators. 
Country Project name 2019 production (GWh) (1)
CO2 avoided 2019 (t) 2018 and 2019 production (GWh) 2018 and 2019 CO2 avoided (t) 2019 production attributable to GB (GWh) 2019 CO2 avoided attributable to GB (t)
Expected annual production (GWh) (2)
Expected CO2 avoided (t) Expected annual production attributable to GB (GWh)
Expected CO2 avoided attributable to GB (t)
USA Diamond Vista 1,103 727,809 1,103 727,809 --
USA Fenner Repowering (3) n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
USA High Lonesome - - - - - -1,602 1,056,992 203 133,758. 
USA Roadrunner - 1,154 761,684 446 294,060. 
GERMANY Cremzow n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
GREECE Kafireas - 483 374,311 203 157,086. 
COLOMBIA El Paso - 176 98,800 n.a. n.a.
USA Aurora 172 113,450 361 241,111 --
USA Little Elk 337 222,114 670 447,538 --
USA Chisholm View II 212 140,050 442 295,659 -- n.a. not applicable (1) For projects entered into operation by September 30, 2019, the actual production data are reported and consequently the amount of CO2 avoided.
(2) For projects entered into operation after September 30, 2019 or which have not yet entered into operation, the expected annual production data and the expected amount of CO2 avoided are reported.
(3) The share of production for only repowering cannot be separated from the rest of the plant because it is not possible to precisely determine the share of energy fed to the network only due to the increase in power.
Green Bond 2018 Renewable projects + Refinancing. 
Green Bond 2018 Renewable projects + Refinancing n.a. not applicable (1) Indicative value in euros (EUR), although the investment in US dollars (USD) applies where present. The exchange rate used for projects allocated in the 2017 green bond is 1.11 USD/EUR, for projects allocated in the 2018 green bond is 1.19 USD/EUR whereas for projects whose investment value has been updated − including those with the new Capex identified in GB 2019 − the exchange rate is 1.21. (2) Additional proceeds were allocated for some renewable projects that were already identified in the 2017 and 2018 Green Bond, for which new capitalized costs emerged.


263 Green Bond Report. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix 263 Green Bond Report. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Country Project name Water consumption (m3) Actions to protect/restore biodiversity (no.)
Plant shutdown or site stop due to environmental issues (no.)
Injuries (fatal and “High Consequence”) (no.)
Social actions (no.) Beneficiaries of social projects (no.)
USA Diamond Vista - 1 --
USA Fenner Repowering - --
USA High Lonesome 80,208 (2) - 1 600. 
USA Roadrunner 44,112 (2) 2 - 1 700. 
GERMANY Cremzow - --
GREECE Kafireas 1,011 (2) 1 - 8 30,165. 
COLOMBIA El Paso 359 (2) --
USA Aurora - 16 - 1 450. 
USA Little Elk - --
USA Chisholm View II - - 1 36. 
Table C - Further ESG indicators Green Bond 2018 Renewable projects + Refinancing n.a. not applicable (1) For plant entered into operation by September 30, 2019 the figures refer to water consumption for industrial use related to operation phase. (2) For plant not yet entered into operation by September 30, 2019 the figures refer to water consumption for industrial use related to under construction phase.


264 Sustainability Report 2019 264 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Table A - Financial indicators. 
Country Project cluster Cluster Status Investments in currency (mil) Green bond proceeds allocated to the project in 2018 (mil euros)
ITALY Smart meter Asset Development (1) n.a. 46. 
ITALY Smart grid Asset Development (2) n.a. 21. 
ITALY Quality&Efficiency Asset Development (2) n.a. 305. 
ITALY Other ICT Investment Asset Development (2) n.a. 52. 
Total Asset Development 824 424. 
ITALY Maintenance Asset Management (2) n.a. 242. 
Total Asset Management 452 242. 
Total Asset Development and Asset Management Italy 1,276 666. 
Green Bond 2018 Infrastructure and Networks projects n.a. not applicable (1) As at December 31, 2018 the final figures of the project consisted of approximately 420 million euros of meters and concentrators entered into operation in the same month as the installation and about 26 million euros for the central remote management system and related software.
(2) The final figures are composed of a very large number of interventions that include activities started in previous years and concluded in the current year, activities started in the current year and concluded in the same year and activities started in the year and not yet completed at December 31, 2018.

Country Injuries (fatal and “High Consequence”) (no.) Social actions (no.) Beneficiaries of social projects (no.) Biodiversity projects (no.)
Italy 2 141 5,136 16. 
Table C - Further ESG indicators Green Bond 2018 Infrastructure and Networks projects. 
Green Bond 2018 Infrastructure and Networks projects Table B - ESG indicators. 
Italy Cabling (%) Network automation (%) Oil equipment with PCB removed (no.)
Active smart meters (mil) Renewable production units connected to network (no.)
New “users” connected to network (no.)
Technical network losses (%)
CO2 avoided (t)
Total Asset Development n.a. n.a. n.a. 31.4 (1) 58,693 198,582 n.a. 11,617 Total Asset Management 75 37 247 n.a. n.a. n.a. 3.8 n.a. not applicable (1) Starting in 2017, a campaign has been started for replacing first generation smart meters with second generation meters, therefore the replacement does not involve an increase in the number of reported smart meters.


265 Green Bond Report. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix 265 Green Bond Report. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Table A - Financial indicators. 
Country Project name Technology Status Capacity (MW) Commercial operation date. 
Investment (value in currency) GB proceeds allocated in 2017 (mil euros)
GB proceeds allocated in 2018 (mil euros)
GB proceeds allocated in 2019 (mil euros) (2) Currency Value in currency (mil)
Equivalent in euro (mil) (1)
USA Whitney Hill Wind In Operation 66 dec-19 USD 281 340 -10. 
USA Aurora Wind Wind Under Construction 299 oct-20 USD 111 135 -10. 
USA Cimarron Bend 3 phase I Wind Hand Over to Do 199 nov-20 USD 114 137 -4. 
AUSTRALIA Cohuna Solar Under Construction 34 feb-20 USD 54 65 -31. 
AUSTRALIA Girgarre Solar Ready to Build 96 feb-21 USD 144 174 -7. 
ITALY Various projects (3) Hydroelectric 40 EUR 55 55 -10. 
CANADA Riverview Wind Under Construction 115 apr-20 USD 170 143 8 -81. 
CANADA Castle Rock Ridge 2 Wind Under Construction 31 feb-20 USD 2 -23. 
MEXICO Magdalena 2 Solar In Operation 220 sep-19 USD 165 136 9 -112. 
MEXICO Amistad II Wind In Operation 100 dec-19 USD 115 97 22 -55. 
MEXICO Amistad III Wind Under Construction 100 feb-20 USD 104 86 11 -59. 
MEXICO Amistad IV Wind Under Construction 149 apr-20 USD 149 123 13 -50. 
MEXICO Dolores Wind Under Construction 244 mar-20 USD 280 235 36 -192. 
USA High Lonesome Wind In Operation 501 dec-19 USD 720 595 -81 75. 
USA Roadrunner Solar Under Construction 497 jun-20 USD 436 366 -30 141. 
GREECE Kafireas Wind In Operation 154 oct-19 USD 300 300 -64 126. 
Total 101 175 986 n.a. not applicable (1) Indicative value in euros (EUR), although the investment in US dollars (USD) applies where present. The exchange rate used for projects allocated in the 2017 green bond is 1.11 USD/EUR, for projects allocated in the 2018 green bond is 1.19 USD/EUR whereas for projects whose investment value has been updated − including those with the new Capex identified in GB 2019 − the exchange rate is 1.21.
(2) Additional proceeds were allocated for some renewable projects that were already.
(3) Aggregate data related to 8 small sized Italian projects. The concerned technology is hydroelectric.

Green Bond 2019 Renewable projects. 
Table B - ESG indicators. 
Country Project name (1) 2019 production (GWh) (2)
CO2 avoided 2019 (t) 2019 production attributable to GB (GWh) 2019 CO2 avoided attributable to GB (t)
Expected annual production (GWh) (3)
Expected CO2 avoided (t) Expected annual production attributable to GB (GWh)
Expected CO2 avoided attributable to GB (t)
USA Whitney Hill -246 162,169 7 4,731. 
USA Aurora Wind -1,322 872,617 95 62,567. 
USA Cimarron Bend 3 phase I -929 613,107 26 17,148. 
AUSTRALIA Cohuna -78 65,654 37 31,021. 
AUSTRALIA Girgarre -212 177,835 9 7,360. 
ITALY Various projects (4) n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
n.a. not applicable (1) For projects for which new Capex were allocated in 2019, in addition to what was allocated in the 2017 and 2018 green bond, for the ESG indicators refer to the 2017 and 2018 tables.
(2) For projects entered into operation by September 30, 2019, the actual production data are reported and consequently the amount of CO2 avoided. (3) For projects entered into operation after September 30, 2019 or which have not yet entered into operation, the expected annual production data and the expected amount of CO2 avoided are reported.
The share of production for only repowering cannot be separated from the rest of the plant because it is not possible to precisely determine the share of energy fed to the network only due to the increase in power.
(4) Aggregate data related to 8 small sized Italian projects. The concerned technology is hydroelectric.

Green Bond 2019 Renewable projects


266 Sustainability Report 2019 266 Sustainability Report 2019. 
Table C - Further ESG indicators. 
Country Project name Water consumption (m3) Actions to protect/restore biodiversity (no.)
Plant shutdown or site stop due to environmental issues (no.)
Injuries (fatal and “High Consequence”) (no.)
Social actions (no.) Beneficiaries of social projects (no.)
USA Whitney Hill 46,113 (2) -1 300. 
USA Aurora Wind - 4 - 1 450. 
USA Cimarron Bend 3 phase I - --
AUSTRALIA Cohuna 9,490 (2) 3 - 3 120. 
AUSTRALIA Girgarre - --
ITALY Various projects (3) 1 - 2 14 n.a. not applicable (1) For plant entered into operation by September 30, 2019 the figures refer to water consumption for industrial use related to operation phase. (2) For plant not yet entered into operation by September 30, 2019 the figures refer to water consumption for industrial use related to under construction phase. (3) Aggregate data related to 8 small sized Italian projects. The concerned technology is hydroelectric.
Green Bond 2019 Renewable projects


267 Green Bond Report. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
CRITERION INDICATOR GB 2019 DATA/APPROACH. 
Respect for human rights standards and prevention of breaches. 
Number and description of the reports identified through the Enel monitoring system. 
No reporting on projects financed with GB proceeds.
Results of risk analysis on human rights at country level. 
The analysis conducted in the Group’s countries of presence highlighted an average risk perceived as “acceptable” and “high priority”1. Group human rights practices and policies were subsequently assessed as “robust”2. However, specific action plans have been developed for each country of presence as well as a centrally managed improvement plan to harmonize and integrate processes and policies defined at the global level and applied at local level.
Respect for labor rights Number and description of the reports identified through the Enel monitoring system. 
No reporting on projects financed with GB proceeds.
Results of risk analysis on human rights at country level. 
The analysis conducted in the Group’s countries of presence highlighted an average risk perceived as “acceptable” and “to be monitored”1. Group human rights practices and policies were subsequently assessed as “robust”2. However, specific action plans have been developed for each country of presence as well as a centrally managed improvement plan to harmonize and integrate processes and policies defined at the global level and applied at local level.
Working conditions (employment relationships, training, health and safety conditions, respect for working hours)
Number of injuries (fatal and “High Consequence”) No reporting on renewable plant projects financed with GB revenues and 2 “High Consequence” injuries in Infrastructure and Networks in Italy (only Enel people).
Integration of environmental and social factors into the supply chain Responsible purchasing. 
Ethical clauses in contracts with suppliers Through the General Contract Conditions, Enel requires its contractors and subcontractors, among other things, to comply with the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, respect for and protection of internationally recognized human rights, as well as respect for ethical and social obligations regarding the fight against child labour and protection of women, equal treatment, prohibition of discrimination, freedom of association, association and representation, forced labour, safety and environmental protection, sanitary conditions and also regulatory conditions, retribution, contributions, insurance and tax.
Business ethics (prevention of corruption and money laundering, fraud, anticompetitive practices)
Number and description of the reports identified through the Enel monitoring system. 
One violation found in the Renewables area and one violation in the Infrastructure and Networks area on projects financed with GB proceeds.
Audit and internal control % of area/country processes covered by internal audit activities. 
The average annual coverage level of the processes through internal audit activities is equal to 40% for Renewables and 53% for Infrastructure and Networks in Italy.
 (1) Average perceived risk: average of perceived risk levels identified in the countries being analyzed. Reference scale of risks: 1. High risk; 2. High priority risk; 3. Risk to be monitored; 4. Acceptable risk. (2) Reference scale of performance values: Robust (75%-100%); Good (50%-75%); Sufficient (25%-50%); Needs improvement (0%-25%).
267 Green Bond Report. 
Our pillars ESG backbones Methodological note Green Bond & Appendix. 
Table D - Overall information


268 Sustainability Report 2019


EY S.p.A. Sede Legale: Via Lombardia, 31 - 00187 Roma Capitale Sociale Euro 2.525.000,00 i.v. Iscritta alla S.O. del Registro delle Imprese presso la C.C.I.A.A. di Roma Codice fiscale e numero di iscrizione 00434000584 - numero R.E.A. 250904 P.IVA 00891231003 Iscritta al Registro Revisori Legali al n. 70945 Pubblicato sulla G.U. Suppl. 13 - IV Serie Speciale del 17/2/1998 Iscritta all’Albo Speciale delle società di revisione Consob al progressivo n. 2 delibera n.10831 del 16/7/1997 A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited. 

EY S.p.A. Via Lombardia, 31 00187 Roma. 
Tel: +39 06 324751 Fax: +39 06 324755504 ey.com 269 Green Bond Report


 r
 

270 Sustainability Report 2019


271 Green Bond Report


BILANCIO DI SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019. 
Dichiarazione consolidata di carattere non finanziario redatta ai sensi del D.Lgs. 254/16_Esercizio 2019. 
This Appendix is an integral part of the Enel Group’s Sustainability Report 2019. 
APPENDIX


274 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
EU1 GENERATION. 
Installed capacity. 
Net efficient generation capacity by primary energy source. 
Thermal net capacity (MW) 38,897 43,099 43,295 -4,202 -9.7 Enel. 
Coal (MW) 11,695 15,828 15,965 -4,133 -26.1 Enel. 
CCGT (1) (MW) 14,991 15,021 15,028 -30 -0.2 Enel. 
Oil/Gas (1) (MW) 12,211 12,250 12,301 -39 -0.3 Enel. 
Nuclear net capacity (MW) 3,318 3,318 3,318 -Enel. 
Renewable net capacity (MW) 42,134 39,203 38,305 2,931 7.5 Enel. 
Hydroelectric (MW) 27,830 27,844 27,799 -14 -0.1 Enel. 
Wind (MW) 10,327 8,190 7,431 2,137 26.1 Enel. 
Geothermal (MW) 878 804 802 74 9.2 Enel. 
Biomass and cogeneration (MW) 5 43 57 -38 -88.4 Enel. 
Photovoltaic (MW) 3,094 2,322 2,215 772 33.2 Enel. 
Total net electrical capacity (MW) 84,349 85,620 84,917 -1,271 -1.5 Enel. 
Net efficient generation capacity by geographic area. 
Italy (MW) 27,452 27,624 27,652 -172 -0.6 Italy. 
Iberia (MW) 23,348 22,717 22,732 631 2.8 Iberia. 
Latin America (MW) 21,199 21,603 21,143 -404 -1.9 Latin America. 
Chile (MW) 7,232 7,448 7,475 -216 -2.9 Chile. 
Argentina (MW) 4,419 4,419 4,419 -Argentina. 
Colombia (MW) 3,592 3,583 3,467 10 0.3 Colombia. 
Peru (MW) 2,299 2,297 2,158 3 0.1 Peru. 
Brazil (MW) 3,050 3,250 2,975 -200 -6.1 Brazil. 
Uruguay (MW) -50 -Uruguay. 
Costa Rica (MW) 81 81 81 -Costa Rica. 
Guatemala (MW) 164 164 164 -Guatemala. 
Panama (MW) 362 362 354 -Panama. 
North America (MW) 5,282 3,220 2,934 2,062 64.0 North America. 
Performance indicators. 
At a Glance 275 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
North America (MW) 4,437 2,921 2,092 1,516 51.9 North America. 
Mexico (MW) 845 299 843 546 -Mexico. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (MW) 6,292 9,761 9,761 -3,469 -35.5. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
Russia (MW) 5,255 8,878 8,878 -3,623 -40.8 Russia. 
Romania (MW) 534 534 534 -Romania. 
Greece (MW) 461 307 307 154 50.2 Greece. 
Bulgaria (MW) 42 42 42 -Bulgaria. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (MW) 776 695 695 81 11.7 Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
South Africa (MW) 570 522 522 48 9.1 South Africa. 
India (MW) 172 172 172 --0.1 India. 
Zambia (MW) 34 -34 -Zambia. 
Total net electrical capacity (MW) 84,349 85,620 84,917 -1,271 -1.5 Enel. 
Power generation plants. 
Thermoelectric plants (2) (no.) 84 89 89 -5 -5.6 Enel. 
Coal plants (no.) 12 16 16 -4 -25.0 Enel. 
CCGT plants (no.) 23 23 23 -Enel. 
Oil/Gas plants (no.) 49 50 50 -1 -2.0 Enel. 
Nuclear plants (no.) 3 3 3 -Enel. 
Renewable energy plants (no.) 1,138 1,094 1,073 44 4.0 Enel. 
Hydroelectric plants (no.) 761 750 744 11 1.5 Enel - of which mini-hydro plants (< 10 MW) (no.) 473 460 436 13 2.8 Enel. 
Wind plants (no.) 226 202 195 24 11.9 Enel. 
Photovoltaic plants (no.) 105 99 88 6 6.1 Enel. 
Geothermal plants (no.) 38 35 36 3 8.6 Enel. 
Biomass plants (no.) 8 8 10 -Enel. 
OPERATING RESULTS. 
EU2 GENERATION. 
Net production by primary energy source. 
Thermal net production (GWh) 103,459 127,332 141,733 -23,873 -18.7 Enel. 
Coal (GWh) 37,592 64,366 70,497 -26,774 -41.6 Enel. 
CCGT (GWh) 44,980 38,134 44,381 6,846 18.0 Enel. 
Oil/Gas (GWh) 20,887 24,832 26,855 -3,945 -15.9 Enel. 
Nuclear net production (GWh) 26,279 24,067 26,448 2,212 9.2 Enel. 
Renewable net production (GWh) 99,391 98,940 81,695 451 0.5 Enel 276 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Hydroelectric (GWh) 62,580 65,893 55,363 -3,313 -5.0 Enel. 
Wind (GWh) 26,668 22,161 17,827 4,507 20.3 Enel. 
Geothermal (GWh) 6,148 5,881 5,820 267 4.5 Enel. 
Biomass and cogeneration (GWh) 21 108 108 -87 -80.6 Enel. 
Photovoltaic (GWh) 3,974 4,897 2,577 -923 -18.8 Enel. 
Total net production (GWh) 229,129 250,339 249,876 -21,210 -8.5 Enel. 
Net production by geographic area. 
Italy (GWh) 46,912 53,233 53,518 -6,321 -11.9 Italy. 
Iberia (GWh) 61,402 74,192 78,618 -12,790 -17.2 Iberia. 
Latin America (GWh) 71,836 70,578 67,082 1,258 1.8 Latin America. 
Chile (GWh) 21,041 20,885 20,231 155 0.7 Chile. 
Argentina (GWh) 12,974 13,949 14,825 -976 -7.0 Argentina. 
Colombia (GWh) 15,362 14,053 14,766 1,309 9.3 Colombia. 
Peru (GWh) 9,249 8,999 7,493 250 2.8 Peru. 
Brazil (GWh) 11,077 9,840 7,161 1,237 12.6 Brazil. 
Uruguay (GWh) -170 151 -170 -100.0 Uruguay. 
Costa Rica (GWh) 198 305 319 -107 -35.1 Costa Rica. 
Guatemala (GWh) 430 568 608 -137 -24.2 Guatemala. 
Panama (GWh) 1,505 1,808 1,528 -303 -16.8 Panama. 
North America (GWh) 12,969 9,752 7,338 3,217 33.0 North America. 
North America (GWh) 11,923 7,133 5,313 4,790 67.1 North America. 
Mexico (GWh) 1,046 2,619 2,025 -1,573 -60.1 Mexico. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (GWh) 34,439 41,076 41,839 -6,637 -16.2. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
Russia (GWh) 32,433 39,182 39,830 -6,748 -17.2 Russia. 
Romania (GWh) 1,251 1,227 1,358 24 2.0 Romania. 
Greece (GWh) 666 577 548 89 15.5 Greece. 
Bulgaria (GWh) 88 91 103 -4 -3.9 Bulgaria. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (GWh) 1,571 1,508 1,481 63 4.2 Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
South Africa (GWh) 1,235 1,192 1,156 43 3.6 South Africa. 
India (GWh) 303 315 325 -12 -3.8 India. 
Zambia (GWh) 33 -33 -Zambia. 
Total net production (GWh) 229,129 250,339 249,876 -21,210 -8.5 Enel. 
Development of renewables. 
New renewable power (3) (MW) 3,575 2,682 2,783 893 33.3 Enel. 
Hydroelectric (MW) 51 71 400 -20 -27.7 Enel. 
Wind (MW) 2,227 1,415 1,258 812 57.4 Enel. 
Geothermal (MW) 75 1 41 74 -Enel 277 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Biomass and cogeneration (MW) - - 1 -Enel. 
Photovoltaic (MW) 1,222 1,195 1,084 27 2.3 Enel. 
NETWORK. 
EU4 Total electricity distribution network (km) 2,230,029 2,226,097 2,160,559 3,932 0.2 Enel. 
Total high-voltage network (km) 46,606 46,261 44,387 345 0.7 Enel - of which underground cable (km) 1,992 1,976 1,826 16 0.8 Enel. 
Total medium-voltage network (km) 887,439 889,692 857,086 -2,253 -0.3 Enel - of which underground cable (km) 221,447 219,203 214,060 2,244 1.0 Enel. 
Total low-voltage network (km) 1,295,984 1,290,144 1,259,086 5,840 0.5 Enel - of which underground cable (km) 405,321 403,098 396,634 2,223 0.6 Enel. 
EU4 Electricity distribution network by geographic area. 
Total electricity distribution network Italy (km) 1,157,527 1,153,323 1,149,219 4,204 0.4 Italy. 
High-voltage network (km) 22 13 13 9 69.2 Italy - of which underground cable (km) 11 11 - -Italy. 
Medium-voltage network (km) 356,622 354,884 353,808 1,738 0.5 Italy - of which underground cable (km) 151,703 150,201 148,487 1,502 1.0 Italy. 
Low-voltage network (km) 800,883 798,426 795,397 2,457 0.3 Italy - of which underground cable (km) 278,255 276,744 274,821 1,511 0.5 Italy. 
Total electricity distribution network Romania (km) 129,363 128,508 127,548 855 0.7 Romania. 
High-voltage network (km) 6,521 6,511 6,505 10 0.2 Romania - of which underground cable (km) 311 304 293 7 2.3 Romania. 
Medium-voltage network (km) 35,173 35,062 35,016 111 0.3 Romania - of which underground cable (km) 13,675 13,343 13,103 332 2.5 Romania. 
Low-voltage network (km) 87,669 86,935 86,027 734 0.8 Romania - of which underground cable (km) 21,004 20,829 20,649 175 0.8 Romania. 
Total electricity distribution network Iberia (km) 316,332 319,613 317,782 -3,281 -1.0 Iberia. 
High-voltage network (km) 19,593 19,625 19,560 -32 -0.2 Iberia - of which underground cable (km) 787 787 779 -Iberia. 
Medium-voltage network (km) 115,943 118,531 117,886 -2,588 -2.2 Iberia - of which underground cable (km) 40,771 41,188 40,979 -417 -1.0 Iberia. 
Low-voltage network (km) 180,795 181,457 180,336 -662 -0.4 Iberia - of which underground cable (km) 85,281 85,067 84,468 214 0.3 Iberia. 
Total electricity distribution network Latin America (4) (km) 626,807 624,653 566,010 2,154 0.3 Latin America. 
High-voltage network (km) 20,470 20,112 18,308 358 1.8 Latin America 278 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope - of which underground cable (km) 883 874 754 9 1.1 Latin America. 
Medium-voltage network (km) 379,701 381,214 350,376 -1,513 -0.4 Latin America - of which underground cable (km) 15,298 14,471 11,491 827 5.7 Latin America. 
Low-voltage network (km) 226,636 223,326 197,326 3,310 1.5 Latin America - of which underground cable (km) 20,781 20,458 16,696 323 1.6 Latin America. 
Energy transported and local coverage. 
Energy transported (5) (TWh) 504.0 484.4 460.7 19.6 4.0 Enel. 
Municipalities served by electric grid (no.) 13,796 13,739 13,558 57 0.4 Enel. 
SALES. 
Electricity volumes sold by market. 
Volumes sold free market (GWh) 152,588 152,619 151,722 -31 -Enel. 
Italy (GWh) 61,985 64,500 59,262 -2,515 -3.9 Italy. 
Iberia (GWh) 78,056 76,772 83,036 1,284 1.7 Iberia. 
Romania (GWh) 7,647 7,519 6,318 128 1.7 Romania. 
Latin America (GWh) 4,901 3,828 3,106 1,073 28.0 Latin America. 
Volumes sold regulated market (GWh) 149,088 142,813 133,031 6,275 4.4 Enel. 
Italy (GWh) 35,554 39,818 43,958 -4,264 -10.7 Italy. 
Iberia (GWh) 11,385 12,867 13,478 -1,482 -11.5 Iberia. 
Romania (GWh) 2,088 2,881 4,029 -793 -27.5 Romania. 
Latin America (GWh) 100,061 87,247 71,566 12,814 14.7 Latin America. 
Total volumes sold (GWh) 301,676 295,432 284,753 6,244 2.1 Enel. 
Electricity volumes sold by geographic area. 
Italy (GWh) 97,539 104,318 103,220 -6,780 -6.5 Italy. 
Iberia (GWh) 89,441 89,639 96,514 -198 -0.2 Iberia. 
Romania (GWh) 9,735 10,400 10,347 -665 -6.4 Romania. 
Latin America (GWh) 104,962 91,075 74,672 13,887 15.2 Latin America. 
Volumes sold gas (bn m3) 10.50 11.18 11.76 -0.68 -6.1 Enel. 
Italy (bn m3) 4.74 4.76 4.81 --0.4 Italy. 
Iberia (bn m3) 5.75 6.41 6.94 -0.66 -10.3 Iberia. 
Romania (bn m3) 0.01 0.01 0.01 -Romania 102-7 ECONOMIC RESULTS. 
Revenues (mil euros) 80,327 75,575 74,639 4,752 6.3 Enel. 
EBITDA (6) (mil euros) 17,704 16,351 15,653 1,353 8.3 Enel. 
Italy (mil euros) 7,628 7,304 6,863 324 4.4 Italy 279 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Iberia (mil euros) 3,792 3,558 3,573 234 6.6 Iberia. 
Latin America (mil euros) 5,303 4,543 4,457 760 16.7 Latin America. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (mil euros) 448 516 543 -68 -13.2. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
North America (mil euros) 799 535 506 264 49.3 North America. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (mil euros) 61 54 57 7 13.0 Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Other, eliminations and adjustments (mil euros) -327 -159 -346 -168 -Other, eliminations and adjustments. 
Italy (%) 43.1 44.7 43.8 -1.6 -Italy. 
Iberia (%) 21.4 21.8 22.8 -0.4 -Iberia. 
Latin America (%) 30.0 27.8 28.5 2.2 -Latin America. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (%) 2.5 3.2 3.5 -0.6 -
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
North America (%) 4.5 3.3 3.2 1.2 -North America. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (%) 0.3 0.3 0.4 -- Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Other, eliminations and adjustments (%) -1.8 -1.0 -2.2 -0.9 -Other, eliminations and adjustments. 
EBIT (mil euros) 6,878 9,900 9,792 -3,022 -30.5 Enel. 
EBT (mil euros) 4,312 8,201 7,211 -3,889 -47.4 Enel. 
Group net income (mil euros) 2,174 4,789 3,779 -2,615 -54.6 Enel. 
Creating value for stakeholders. 
Revenues (6) (mil euros) 80,327 75,575 74,639 4,752 6.3 Enel. 
External costs (mil euros) 56,022 53,833 53,680 2,189 4.1 Enel. 
Net income/(expenses) from commodity risk (6) (mil euros) -733 532 578 -1,265 -Enel. 
Gross global added value continuing operations (mil euros) 23,572 22,274 21,537 1,298 5.8 Enel. 
Shareholders (mil euros) 3,050 2,765 1,983 285 10.3 Enel. 
Lenders (mil euros) 2,609 2,493 2,495 116 4.7 Enel. 
Employees (mil euros) 4,634 4,582 4,504 52 1.1 Enel. 
State (mil euros) 2,069 3,168 3,273 -1,099 -34.7 Enel. 
Business system (mil euros) 11,210 9,266 9,282 1,944 21.0 Enel. 
Economic value generated. 
Economic value generated directly. 
Revenues (6) (mil euros) 80,327 75,575 74,639 4,752 6.3 Enel 280 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Economic value distributed (mil euros) 66,067 63,545 63,375 2,522 4.0 Enel. 
Operating costs (mil euros) 56,755 53,302 53,103 3,453 6.5 Enel. 
Personnel and benefit cost (mil euros) 4,634 4,582 4,504 52 1.1 Enel. 
Payment to lenders of capital (mil euros) 2,609 2,493 2,495 116 4.7 Enel. 
Payments to governments (mil euros) 2,069 3,168 3,273 -1,099 -34.7 Enel. 
Gross added value continuing operations (mil euros) - - - -Enel. 
Economic value generated (mil euros) 14,260 12,030 11,264 2,230 18.5 Enel. 
Investments. 
Investments (mil euros) 9,947 8,152 8,130 1,795 22.0 Enel. 
Total Italy (mil euros) 2,635 2,479 1,812 156 6.3 Italy. 
Iberia (mil euros) 2,020 1,433 1,105 587 41.0 Iberia. 
Latin America (mil euros) 2,632 2,259 3,044 373 16.5 Latin America. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (mil euros) 458 390 307 68 17.4. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
North America (mil euros) 1,806 1,360 1,760 446 32.8 North America. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (mil euros) 275 142 30 133 93.7 Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Total Abroad (mil euros) 7,191 5,584 6,246 1,607 28.8 Total Abroad. 
Adjustments (mil euros) 121 89 72 32 36.0 Enel. 
Weight of foreign investments (%) 72.3 68.5 76.8 4 -Enel (1) The 2017 and 2018 figures have been recalculated in line with the reclassification of the turbogas plants in Italy (2,223 MW restated from CCGT to Oil & Gas). (2) In some thermal plants, multiple technology units are present. (3) Additional renewable capacity, excluding disposals and changes in scope, mainly in North, Central and Latin America. (4) In 2018, the distribution company Eletropaulo was acquired in Brazil. (5) The distributed energy figure for 2018 takes into account a more precise determination of the quantities transported. (6) The 2018 data were adjusted to reflect the IFRS Committee (IFRIC) interpretations given in the March 2019 Agenda Decision, which resulted in a different classification – without affecting the margins recorded – of the effects related to contracts of purchase and sale of commodities measured at fair value in profit and loss (refer to the information given in note 4.3 of the Enel Group 2019 Financial Report).
281 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
EMISSIONS. 
Avoided emissions (1) (mil t) 77.0 78.5 71.3 -1.5 -1.9 Enel 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1)
CO2 emissions from the electricity production and heat (mil t) 69.39 94.44 105.20 -25.05 -26.5 Enel. 
Other CO2eq emissions due to electricity production and other activities (2) (mil t eq) 0.60 0.79 0.76 -0.19 -24.1 Enel. 
Total direct emissions (Scope 1) (mil t eq) 69.98 95.23 105.96 -25.25 -26.5 Enel. 
Specific emissions. 
Specific CO2 emissions from total net production (3) (g/kWh eq) 296 369 411 -73 -19.8 Enel 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2)
Purchased electricity from the grid (4)
Fuel deposit and movement (mil t eq) 0.001 0.002 0.002 -0.001 -50.0 Enel. 
Electricity distribution (mil t eq) 0.149 0.168 0.165 -0.019 -11.3 Enel. 
Real estate (mil t eq) 0.081 0.106 0.077 -0.025 -23.6 Enel. 
Mining (mil t eq) 0.0003 0.0010 0.0010 -0.0007 -70.0 Enel. 
Energy production (thermal and hydroelectric plant) (mil t eq) 1.316 1.122 1.253 0.194 17.3 Enel. 
Total indirect emissions related to energy purchased from the grid (Scope 2, location based) (mil t eq) 1.547 1.399 1.498 0.148 10.6 Enel. 
Total indirect emissions related to energy purchased from the grid (Scope 2, market based) (mil t eq) 2.301 2.107 2.194 0.194 9.2 Enel. 
Distribution and transmission system: energy losses (5)
Emissions due to energy losses (location based) (mil t eq) 3.818 3.684 3.505 0.134 3.6 Enel. 
Commitment to the fight against climate change - Environmental sustainability 282 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse emissions (Scope 3) (6)
Coal mining (mil t eq) 3.329 5.602 5.903 -2.273 -40.6 Enel. 
Transport of coal by sea (mil t eq) 0.454 0.797 0.805 -0.343 -43.0 Enel. 
Transport of coal by train (mil t eq) 0.215 0.330 0.381 -0.115 -34.8 Enel. 
Transport of fuel (gas oil, biomass, WDF) (mil t eq) 0.009 0.008 0.011 0.001 12.5 Enel. 
Transport of raw materials and waste (mil t eq) 0.014 0.026 0.028 -0.012 -46.2 Enel. 
End users’ use of sold products: electricity market (mil t eq) 28.975 27.387 25.460 1.588 5.80 Enel. 
End users’ use of sold products: gas market (mil t eq) 23.923 25.410 25.290 -1.487 -5.9 Enel. 
Total indirect emissions (Scope 3) (mil t eq) 56.918 59.563 57.877 -2.645 -4.4 Enel 305-7 Other atmospheric emissions (7)
SO2 emissions (t) 138,264 192,796 214,057 -54,532 -28.3 Enel. 
NOx emissions (t) 141,208 184,468 203,329 -43,260 -23.5 Enel. 
H2S emissions (t) 5,162 5,347 5,809 -185 -3.5 Enel. 
Dust emissions (t) 27,012 43,059 68,095 -16,047 -37.3 Enel. 
Specific emissions. 
SO2 emissions (g/kWh eq) 0.59 0.75 0.84 -0.16 -21.3 Enel. 
NOx emissions (g/kWh eq) 0.60 0.72 0.79 -0.12 -16.7 Enel. 
Dust emissions (g/kWh eq) 0.12 0.17 0.27 -0.05 -29.4 Enel 307-1 Environmental disputes. 
Environmental proceedings as defendant (8) (no.) 177 292 569 -115 -39.4 Enel. 
Monetary value of environmental fines (9) (mil euros) 70.04 12.48 2.08 57.55 -Enel. 
ENERGY CONSUMPTION 302-1 Fuel consumption by primary source in TJ from non-renewable sources (TJ) 1,203,787 1,488,072 1,671,664 -284,285 -18.9 Enel. 
Coal (TJ) 371,960 634,761 686,761 -262,801 -41.4 Enel. 
Lignite (TJ) 9,360 18,003 25,121 -8,643 -48.0 Enel. 
Fuel oil (TJ) 50,013 59,997 69,668 -9,984 -16.6 Enel. 
Natural gas (TJ) 425,923 481,105 525,904 -55,182 -11.5 Enel 283 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Diesel (TJ) 67,489 39,272 84,071 28,217 71.8 Enel. 
Uranium (TJ) 279,042 254,934 280,139 24,108 9.5 Enel from renewable sources (TJ) 54,185 58,992 59,034 -4,807 -8.1 Enel. 
Biomass, biogas and waste (TJ) 1,995 6,615 5,945 -4,620 -69.8 Enel. 
Geothermal fluid (TJ) 52,190 52,377 53,089 -187 -0.4 Enel. 
Total direct consumption (TJ) 1,257,972 1,547,064 1,730,698 -289,092 -18.7 Enel. 
Fuel consumption by primary source in Mtoe from non-renewable sources (Mtoe) 28.8 35.5 39.9 -6.7 -19.0 Enel. 
Coal (Mtoe) 8.9 15.2 16.4 -6.3 -41.3 Enel. 
Lignite (Mtoe) 0.2 0.4 0.6 -0.2 -53.5 Enel. 
Fuel oil (Mtoe) 1.2 1.4 1.7 -0.2 -16.3 Enel. 
Natural gas (Mtoe) 10.2 11.5 12.6 -1.3 -11.2 Enel. 
Diesel (Mtoe) 1.6 0.9 2.0 0.7 70.6 Enel. 
Uranium (Mtoe) 6.7 6.1 6.7 0.6 10.0 Enel from renewable sources (Mtoe) 1.3 1.5 1.4 -0.3 -16.7 Enel. 
Biomass, biogas and waste (Mtoe) 0.05 0.20 0.10 -0.2 -75.0 Enel. 
Geothermal fluid (Mtoe) 1.2 1.3 1.3 -0.1 -7.7 Enel. 
Total direct consumption (Mtoe) 30.1 37.0 41.3 -6.9 -18.6 Enel. 
Incidence of fuel consumption from nonrenewable sources. 
Coal (%) 30.9 42.7 41.1 -11.8 - Enel. 
Lignite (%) 0.7 1.2 1.5 -0.5 - Enel. 
Fuel oil (%) 4.2 4.0 4.2 0.2 - Enel. 
Natural gas (%) 35.4 32.3 31.5 3.1 - Enel. 
Diesel (%) 5.6 2.7 5.0 2.9 - Enel. 
Uranium (%) 23.3 17.1 16.7 6.2 - Enel 302-1 Indirect energy consumption by destination. 
Fuel deposit and movement (TJ) 19 30 29 -11 -36.7 Enel. 
Electricity distribution (TJ) 1,946 2,107 1,872 -161 -7.6 Enel. 
Real estate (TJ) 1,154 1,558 932 -404 -25.9 Enel. 
Mining (TJ) 4 6 6 -2 -33.3 Enel. 
Total energy consumption (TJ) 3,123 3,701 2,839 -578 -15.6 Enel. 
Internal consumption. 
Electricity consumption for civilian uses (MWh) 320,676.9 432,761.0 258,874 -112,084.1 -25.9 Enel 284 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Fuel consumption (toe) 30,350.4 32,475.0 25,768 -2,124.6 -6.5 Enel. 
Water requirement for civilian uses (,000 m3) 6,797.6 6,624.0 6,965 173.6 2.6 Enel 301-1 Paper bought for printers/ photocopiers (mil A4 eq) 130.4 86.5 123.7 43.9 50.8 Enel. 
RAW MATERIALS. 
Resources used in the production process 301-1. 
Fuel consumption for thermoelectric production from non-renewable sources. 
Coal (,000 t) 18,483 31,105 32,775 -12,622 -40.6 Enel. 
Lignite (,000 t) 730 1,344 1,947 -614 -45.7 Enel. 
Fuel oil (,000 t) 1,246 1,488 1,726 -242 -16.3 Enel. 
Natural gas (mil m3) 13,513 13,080 14,318 433 3.3 Enel. 
Diesel (,000 t) 1,601 929 1,986 672 72.3 Enel from renewable sources Biomass and waste for thermoelectric production (,000 t) 130 574 519 -444 -77.4 Enel. 
Biogas (mil m3) 1.3 1.2 1.0 0.1 8.3 Enel. 
Geothermal steam used for electricity production (,000 t) 46,435 53,548 47,323 -7,113 -13.3 Enel 301-1 Consumables. 
Lime (,000 t) 295.5 576.1 743.7 -280.6 -48.7 Enel. 
Ammonia (,000 t) 20.3 26.0 29.6 -5.7 -21.9 Enel. 
Caustic soda (,000 t) 79.6 83.0 83.7 -3.4 -4.1 Enel. 
Slaked lime (,000 t) 5.0 15.3 15.6 -10.3 -67.3 Enel. 
Sulfuric/chloride acid (,000 t) 9.2 11.6 11.8 -2.4 -20.4 Enel. 
Other (,000 t) 46.0 52.3 43.5 -6.3 -12.1 Enel. 
Total (,000 t) 455.6 764.3 927.9 -308.7 -40.4 Enel 301-2. 
Percentage of materials used that derive from recycled material compared to total consumption of each resource. 
Lubricant (%) 14.9 4.0 5.2 10.9 - Enel. 
Dielectric oil (%) 63.5 56.9 99.0 6.6 - Enel. 
Ferric chloride (%) -3.9 8.3 -3.9 - Enel 285 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Paper for printing (%) 75.0 0.4 0.1 74.6 - Enel. 
Water. 
Volumes of water used by production process. 
By thermoelectric power production (mil m3) 74.9 94.5 110.4 -19.6 -20.7 Enel. 
By nuclear power production (mil m3) 1.9 1.7 1.8 0.2 11.8 Enel. 
By geothermal power production, fuel and stock management, solar panels plants (mil m3) 0.490 0.071 0.043 0.419 -Enel. 
Total withdrawal by production processes (mil m3) 77.3 96.3 112.2 -19.0 -19.7 Enel. 
By other industrial uses (mil m3) -0.02 0.02 -0.02 -Enel. 
Total water withdrawal (mil m3) 77.3 96.3 112.2 -19.0 -19.7 Enel. 
Specific requirements by production process (10)
Specific requirements by thermoelectric power production (11) (l/kWh eq) 0.69 0.71 0.75 -0.02 -2.8 Enel. 
Specific requirements by nuclear power production (12) (l/kWh eq) 0.07 0.07 0.07 -Enel. 
Specific requirement for total production from production process (13) (l/kWh eq) 0.33 0.38 0.44 -0.05 -13.2 Enel 303-3 Water withdrawal by source (14)
Withdrawal from scarce sources (mil m3) 63.7 84.4 97.5 -20.7 -24.5 Enel. 
Surface water (wetlands, lakes, rivers) total (mil m3) 44.3 64.2 79.3 -19.9 -31.0 Enel - freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) (mil m3) 44.2 n.a. n.a. -Enel - other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) (mil m3) 0.1 n.a. n.a. -Enel. 
Ground water (from wells) total (mil m3) 11.9 12.2 11.3 -0.3 -2.5 Enel - freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) (mil m3) 11.9 n.a. n.a. -Enel - other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) (mil m3) -n.a. n.a. -Enel. 
Water from aqueduct total (mil m3) 7.5 8.0 6.9 -0.5 -6.3 Enel - freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) (mil m3) 7.0 n.a. n.a. -Enel 286 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope - other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) (mil m3) 0.5 n.a. n.a. -Enel. 
Withdrawal from non scarce sources (mil m3) 13.6 11.9 14.7 1.7 14.3 Enel. 
Sea water (used as is and dissalated) (mil m3) 6.4 7.4 7.8 -1.0 -13.5 Enel - freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) (mil m3) 3.6 n.a. n.a. -Enel - other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) (mil m3) 2.8 n.a. n.a. -Enel from waste (amount used inside plants) (mil m3) 7.2 4.5 6.9 2.7 60.0 Enel. 
Total (mil m3) 77.3 96.3 112.2 -19.0 -19.7 Enel 303-3 Percentage of recycled and reused water (%) 9.3 4.7 6.1 4.6 98.2 Enel. 
Water used for open-cycle cooling. 
Total (mil m3) 17,876.3 17,062.2 18,276.7 814.1 4.8 Enel from surface water (mil m3) 7,395.1 n.a. n.a. -Enel from sea water (mil m3) 10,481.2 n.a. n.a. -Enel. 
Total withdrawals (mil m3) 17,953.6 17,158.5 18,388.9 795.1 4.6 Enel. 
Water consumption (15) (mil m3) 58.1 48.7 58.4 9.4 19.3 Enel 303-3 Water withdrawal by source in “water stressed” areas. 
Withdrawal from scarce sources (mil m3) 10.7 11.2 10.3 -0.5 -4.5 Enel. 
Surface water (wetlands, lakes, rivers) total (mil m3) 0.4 n.a. n.a. -Enel - freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) (mil m3) 0.4 n.a. n.a. -Enel - other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) (mil m3) -n.a. n.a. -Enel. 
Ground water (from wells) total (mil m3) 8.6 8.1 7.0 0.5 6.2 Enel - freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) (mil m3) 8.6 n.a. n.a. -Enel - other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) (mil m3) -n.a. n.a. -Enel. 
Water from aqueduct total (mil m3) 1.7 3.1 3.3 -1.4 -45.2 Enel - freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) (mil m3) 1.7 n.a. n.a. -Enel - other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) (mil m3) -n.a. n.a. -Enel. 
Withdrawal from non scarce sources (mil m3) 0.2 -0.3 0.2 -Enel 287 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Sea water (used as is and dissalated) (mil m3) 0.1 n.a. n.a. -Enel - freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) (mil m3) 0.1 n.a. n.a. -Enel - other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) (mil m3) -n.a. n.a. -Enel from waste (amount used inside plants) (mil m3) 0.1 -0.3 0.1 -Enel. 
Total (mil m3) 10.9 11.2 10.6 -0.3 -2.7 Enel. 
WATER DISCHARGE. 
Water discharge by destination (16) (mil m3) 17,895.5 17,109.8 18,330.5 785.7 4.6 Enel. 
Surface water (wetlands, lakes, rivers) (mil m3) 7,388.6 n.a. n.a. -Enel. 
Groundwater (mil m3) -n.a. n.a. -Enel. 
Water in municipal/ industrial treatment plants (mil m3) 12.5 n.a. n.a. -Enel. 
Third party water (mil m3) 12.1 n.a. n.a. -Enel. 
Seawater (mil m3) 10,482.3 n.a. n.a. -Enel 306-2 WASTE PRODUCED (17)
Non-hazardous waste (t) 7,168,419 8,846,150 9,315,552 -1,677,731 -19.0 Enel. 
Hazardous waste (t) 50,332 150,673 67,453 -100,341 -66.6 Enel - of which waste containing PCB (t) 968 89 695 879 -Enel. 
Total waste produced (t) 7,219,719 8,996,823 9,383,005 -1,777,104 -19.8 Enel. 
Total waste sent for recovery (%) 18.9 22.9 22.5 -4.0 -Enel. 
Hazardous waste by disposal method. 
Recycled or sent for recovery (t) 28,324 15,413 26,406 12,911 83.8 Enel. 
Landfill (t) 11,366 135,260 41,047 -123,894 -91.6 Enel. 
Incineration and other disposal methods (t) 10,642 n.a. n.a. -Enel. 
Total (t) 50,332 150,673 67,453 -100,341 -66.6 Enel 288 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Non-hazardous waste by disposal method. 
Recovery (including energy recovery) (t) 1,336,684 2,047,476 2,082,742 -710,792 -34.7 Enel. 
Landfill (t) 5,550,852 6,798,674 7,232,810 -1,247,822 -18.4 Enel. 
Incineration and other disposal methods (t) 280,883 n.a. n.a. -Enel. 
Total (t) 7,168,419 8,846,150 9,315,552 -1,677,746 -19.0 Enel. 
Mitigation of the impact on the landscape/territory (18)
LV/MV cabling ratio (%) 60.1 60.0 60.0 0.1 - Enel. 
LV cabling ratio (%) 82.2 82.0 81.9 0.2 - Enel. 
MV cabling ratio (%) 29.1 28.5 28.1 0.6 - Enel (1) Avoided emissions are calculated as the sum of the emissions avoided in the various countries. The resulting figure is the product of the generation of electricity obtained from a renewable or nuclear source and the specific CO2 emissions from the thermoelectric generation of the country where Enel operates (source: Enerdata - http://enerdata.net). (2) For all combustion processes from fossil sources, the production of N2O (GWP = 265) and CH4 (GWP = 28) expressed in CO2 equivalent are included. These values, not present in the 2017 and 2018 reporting, were recalculated for the previous two years. The calculation of the other activities also includes CO2eq emissions from the combustion of diesel fuel in the generating sets, from the fuel of the company fleet, from the fuel used in the offices for heating and canteens, fluorinated gases and ODS, SF6 and NF3. (3) This indicator is calculated as the ratio between total emissions from thermoelectric generation and the total from renewable, nuclear and thermoelectric generation (including the contribution of heat in MWheq). (4) “Scope 2”, emissions from energy taken from the grid: indirect CO2 emissions relating to 2019 due to the consumption of electricity for moving fuel, electricity distribution, property management and electricity purchased from the grid by hydroelectric plants are calculated as the product of the electricity consumption multiplied by the respective weighted specific CO2 emission coefficients of the whole generation mix of the countries where the Enel Group operates (source: Enerdata - https://www.enerdata.net/). The data for 2019 also includes the total share of energy taken from the grid for power generation for Italy. The 2018 and 2017 data has been recalculated to include this figure. Scope 2 is calculated according to the “location based” method (based on the company’s location). It is the result of the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions resulting from electricity generation in the area where the consumption takes place. This figure is obtained by multiplying a company’s electricity consumption (expressed in kWh) within the borders of the country in question and the average CO2 emissions per kWh at the specific country level. Scope 2 is calculated according to the “market based” method (based on the market where the company operates). For companies operating in European countries, the reference market is the European one (EU). Companies can obtain this figure by calculating the emissions caused by the power plants that supply them. The electricity’s origin must be certified by “contractual instruments that meet the minimum quality criteria”. In Europe, the only way to prove the electricity’s origin is the Guarantees of Origin. Companies that use electricity whose origin is not certified by these Guarantees must perform the calculation by referring to the emissions associated with the residual mix (source: Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, 2015). (5) “Scope 2”, emissions from energy losses from Enel’s distribution grid and the electricity system transmission grid: as of this year, this category includes indirect emissions deriving from technical losses from Enel’s distribution grid, calculated for all countries of operation for 2017-2019. With its business, the Group covers the entire generation and sales chain in Europe (Italy and Spain) and in five Latin American countries (Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Chile and Peru). To calculate emissions, it has been assumed that the vertical chain of activities takes place within the country. The emissions caused by the losses were calculated based on the part of energy that exceeds the quota produced in the considered country, to avoid the double accounting of emissions already included in Scope 1. An additional division was made for the fraction distributed and sold by Enel in the retail market – a share for which transmission losses were also calculated – and for the share distributed on behalf of other market companies. (6) “Scope 3”: indirect CO2 emissions for 2019 resulting from the transportation of coal by sea are estimated based on the quantity transported (equivalent to 66.6% of the total coal used), taking into consideration the Panamax ships with a 67,600 t capacity, which cover average distances of 700 nautical miles in 22 days, consuming 35 t of fuel oil a day, and an emission coefficient of 3.2 kg of CO2 per litre of oil consumed, considering also the 3-day stopover for unloading for which there is a consumption of 5 t of fuel oil. Indirect CO2 emissions from rail transportation of coal are estimated based on the quantity transported (equivalent to 33.4% of the coal used) and taking into consideration trains with a capacity of 1,100 t, which cover average distances of 1,400 km with consumption of 6.9 kWh/t for every 100 km transported and an average Enel emission coefficient worldwide. Indirect CO2 emissions from the transportation of consumable materials, fuel oil, gas oil, solid biomass, WDF and waste are estimated based on the quantities of raw materials transported, taking into consideration trucks with a capacity of 28 t, which cover average (round trip) distances of 75 km with a consumption of 1 litre of diesel for every 3 km travelled and an emission coefficient of 3 kg of CO2 for each litre of gas oil consumed. The figure is a rough estimate of the fugitive methane emissions (CH4) from coal imported and used by the Enel Group for thermoelectric generation. The figure does not take into account emissions due to the transportation of lignite. In terms of the use of the product sold by end customers for the gas market, the figure for emissions from the combustion of natural gas is calculated based on the energy amount (TWh) of gas sold multiplied by its emission factor (source: IPCC for CO2, N2O and CH4); to calculate emissions from the use of the electricity sold, it has been assumed that the vertical chain of activities takes place within the same country. The emissions of the share sold and produced by the Company have not been included in the calculation since they already fall under Scope 1. The share for the fraction sold but not produced by country was calculated by multiplying the energy amount by the specific country-level emission (source: Enerdata). Emissions from grid losses are not included in the calculation 289 Performance indicators


since they are reported under Scope 2. (7) In terms of minor pollutants, mercury emissions in 2019 amounted to 109 kg, associated with thermoelectric generation for Italy, Spain, Russia and Chile, which account for almost 100% of coal-fired thermoelectric generation throughout the Group. This is in addition to the mercury emissions from the geothermal sector amounting to 403 kg. In Europe, mercury emissions are declared to the competent authorities for registration in the European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (E-PRTR) in accordance with EU Regulation no. 166/2006 and are subject to the relevant checks in terms of completeness, consistency and credibility (Article 2 of Regulation no. 166/2006). (8) The 2019 and 2018 data was classified according to a different method from that applied in 2017. The figures are therefore not comparable. (9) The increase recorded in 2019 is mainly due to penalties imposed on the distribution company in Spain. (10) Following the adoption of the new standard GRI 303 in the 2018 data reporting, the figure previously indicated as specific consumption now refers to specific requirements. Requirement means the total amount of water withdrawn, including the re-use of external wastewater, which is necessary for the plants to operate. This figure does not include water used for open-cycle cooling, since the water is then put back into the original water body. (11) Specific requirements for thermoelectric generation are calculated considering the total consumption of water from thermoelectric generation, in proportion to the total thermoelectric generation (including the contribution of heat in MWh). (12) Specific requirements for nuclear power generation are calculated considering total water consumption from nuclear generation, in proportion to the total nuclear power generation. (13) Specific requirements for total generation are calculated considering the total water consumption for thermoelectric and nuclear generation, in proportion to the total thermoelectric (including the heat contribution in MWh), renewable and nuclear generation. (14) Following the adoption of the standard GRI 303, since 2019 the figures relating to the withdrawal classes by water source are divided into fresh water (= < 1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) and other water (> 1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids). This division is not available for previous years. (15) The difference in the 2019 figure from the previous year is due to a different data collection method following the introduction of a new environmental data tool. The figures were gathered by adopting the withdrawal classes and discharges according to the new standard GRI 303. (16) Following the adoption of the new standard GRI 303, as of 2019 the figures relating to discharges were collected by destination. This division is not available for previous years. (17) With regard to waste production, the table below shows the 2019 figures by significant geographical area only.
KPI UM December 2019 Scope. 
Hazardous waste by significant geographical area. 
Italy (t) 16,112 Italy. 
Iberia (t) 14,381 Iberia. 
Latin America (t) 9,258 Latin America. 
Chile (t) 968 Chile. 
Argentina (t) 928 Argentina. 
Colombia (t) 400 Colombia. 
Peru (t) 850 Peru. 
Brazil (t) 6,112 Brazil. 
Europe and Euro-Mediterranean Affairs (t) 10,337 Europe and Euro-Mediterranean Affairs. 
Russia (t) 8,649 Russia. 
Romania (t) 1,581 Romania. 
Greece (t) 106 Greece. 
Bulgaria (t) 1 Bulgaria. 
Non-hazardous waste by significant geographical area. 
Italy (t) 956,529 Italy. 
Iberia (t) 1,044,461 Iberia. 
Latin America (t) 2,132,446 Latin America. 
Chile (t) 1,768,964 Chile. 
Argentina (t) 92,906 Argentina. 
Colombia (t) 142,225 Colombia. 
Peru (t) 41,990 Peru. 
Brazil (t) 86,361 Brazil. 
Europe and Euro-Mediterranean Affairs (t) 3,034,059 Europe and Euro-Mediterranean Affairs. 
Russia (t) 3,030,190 Russia. 
Romania (t) 3,853 Romania. 
Greece (t) 13 Greece. 
Bulgaria (t) 3 Bulgaria (18) The cabling ratio is calculated by proportioning the km of cabled lines (both underground and aerial insulated cables) to the total km of lines. The increase in the cabling ratio over the years is due to a general increase, in terms of length, of aerial and underground cable sections at the expense of the bare conductor line.
290 Sustainability Report 2019


Infrastructures, ecosystems and platforms. 
GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
EU3 CUSTOMERS (1) 102-6 Electricity market (Final number of customers)
Customers Italy (no.) 23,689,113 25,152,279 26,119,603 -1,463,166 -5.8 Italy. 
Free market (no.) 9,243,826 8,563,028 7,864,967 680,798 8.0 Italy - business to consumer customers (no.) 7,437,948 6,806,450 6,208,382 631,498 9.3 Italy - business to business customers (no.) 1,780,278 1,722,745 1,620,452 57,533 3.3 Italy - customers in protected categories (no.) 25,600 33,833 36,133 -8,233 -24.3 Italy. 
Regulated market (no.) 14,445,287 16,589,251 18,254,636 -2,143,964 -12.9 Italy. 
Customers Iberia (no.) 10,634,958 10,753,670 10,847,815 -118,712 -1.1 Iberia. 
Free market (no.) 5,786,083 5,678,750 5,539,934 107,333 1.9 Iberia. 
Regulated market (no.) 4,848,875 5,074,920 5,307,881 -226,045 -4.5 Iberia. 
Customers Latin America (no.) 26,661,440 26,460,146 18,241,420 201,294 0.8 Latin America. 
Free market (no.) 1,240 844 612 396 46.9 Latin America. 
Regulated market (no.) 26,660,200 26,459,302 18,240,808 200,898 0.8 Latin America. 
Customers Romania (no.) 3,072,945 3,016,509 2,833,672 56,436 1.9 Romania. 
Free market (no.) 2,122,646 1,734,123 1,030,177 388,523 22.4 Romania. 
Regulated market (no.) 950,299 1,282,386 1,803,495 -332,087 -25.9 Romania. 
Total Customers Enel (no.) 64,058,456 65,382,604 58,042,510 -1,324,148 -2.0 Enel. 
Free market (no.) 17,153,795 15,976,745 14,435,690 1,177,050 7.4 Enel. 
Regulated market (no.) 46,904,661 49,405,859 43,606,820 -2,501,198 -5.1 Enel. 
Gas market (Final number of customers)
Customers Italy (no.) 4,155,689 4,088,716 4,029,240 66,973 1.6 Italy. 
Customers Spain (no.) 1,648,705 1,603,721 1,559,685 44,984 2.8 Spain. 
Customers Romania (no.) 52,142 42,702 5,521 9,440 22.1 Romania. 
Total customers gas market (no.) 5,856,536 5,735,139 5,594,446 121,397 2.1 Enel. 
Total customers Enel electricity and gas (no.) 69,914,992 71,117,743 63,636,956 -1,202,751 -1.7 Enel. 
PUBLIC LIGHTING. 
Customers public lighting (1) (no.) 3,071 3,194 3,363 -123 -3.9 Italy 291 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Light sources public lighting (,000) 2,424 2,467 1,855 -43 -1.7 Italy. 
VOLUMES SOLD. 
Electricity. 
Free market (GWh) 152,588 152,619 155,955 -31 -Enel. 
Regulated market (GWh) 149,088 142,813 128,798 6,275 4.4 Enel. 
Total volumes sold (GWh) 301,676 295,432 284,753 6,244 2.1 Enel. 
Gas. 
Italy (bn m3) 4.7 4.8 4.8 -0.1 -2.1 Italy - mass market customers (bn m3) 3.0 3.0 2.9 -Italy - business customers (bn m3) 1.7 1.8 1.9 -0.1 -5.6 Italy. 
Iberia (bn m3) 5.8 6.4 6.9 -0.6 -9.4 Spain. 
Total volumes sold Enel (bn m3) 10.5 11.2 11.7 -0.7 -6.3 Enel. 
ENERGY AVAILABILITY AND REALIABILITY. 
EU11 Efficiency thermoelectric generation (2)
Average thermoelectric generation yield without heat component (%) 42.0 40.1 40.7 1.9 -Enel. 
Average thermoelectric generation yield with heat (%) 43.1 41.1 41.6 2.0 -Enel. 
Average yield by technology without heat component. 
Yield coal plants (%) 36.1 36.2 36.0 -0.1 -Enel. 
Yield oil/gas plants (%) 36.4 36.7 36.8 -0.3 -Enel. 
Yield CCGT plants (%) 53.0 53.1 55.7 -0.1 -Enel. 
Average yield with heat component by technology. 
Yield coal plants (%) 36.3 36.4 36.2 -0.1 -Enel. 
Yield oil/gas plants (%) 40.8 40.6 40.6 0.2 -Enel. 
Yield CCGT plants (%) 53.1 53.3 55.7 -0.2 -Enel. 
EU30. 
Availability of thermoelectric generation by geographic area. 
Average availability thermoelectric generation Italy (%) 86.9 86.7 89.0 0.2 -Italy. 
Average availability thermoelectric generation Russia (%) 86.0 86.7 82.7 -0.7 -Russia 292 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Average availability thermoelectric generation Iberia (%) 91.4 93.0 92.6 -1.6 -Iberia. 
Average availability thermoelectric generation Chile (%) 92.3 91.5 90.6 0.8 -Chile. 
Average availability thermoelectric generation Argentina (%) 84.1 74.6 82.2 9.5 -Argentina. 
Average availability thermoelectric generation Brazil (%) 95.3 100.0 99.6 -4.7 -Brazil. 
Average availability thermoelectric generation Peru (%) 88.7 88.6 89.3 0.1 -Peru. 
Average availability thermoelectric generation Colombia (%) 80.6 84.6 94.1 -4.0 -Colombia. 
EU28 Service interruptions - frequency (SAIFI) (3)
Frequency of interruptions by customer Italy (no.) 1.9 1.8 1.6 0.1 5.6 Italy. 
Frequency of interruptions by customer Romania (no.) 4.1 3.8 4.1 0.3 7.9 Romania. 
Frequency of interruptions by customer Iberia (no.) 1.4 1.6 1.8 -0.2 -12.5 Iberia. 
Frequency of interruptions by customer Peru (no.) 2.8 2.8 2.5 -Peru. 
Frequency of interruptions by customer Chile (no.) 1.6 1.5 1.7 0.1 6.7 Chile. 
Frequency of interruptions by customer Argentina (no.) 6.0 6.7 6.8 -0.7 -10.4 Argentina. 
Frequency of interruptions by customer Brazil (Ampla) (no.) 8.0 7.7 9.8 0.3 3.9 Brazil. 
Frequency of interruptions by customer Brazil (Coelce) (no.) 5.4 4.4 4.9 1.0 22.7 Brazil. 
Frequency of interruptions by customer Brazil (CELG) (no.) 9.7 12.3 15.8 -2.6 -21.1 Brazil. 
Frequency of interruptions by customer Brazil (ELPL) (no.) 3.5 4.3 --0.8 -18.6 Brazil. 
Frequency of interruptions by customer Colombia (no.) 6.8 9.0 10.0 -2.2 -24.4 Colombia. 
EU29 Service interruptions - duration (SAIDI) (3)
Service continuity index Italy (min) 49 47 43 2 4.3 Italy. 
Service continuity index Romania (min) 170 174 191 -64 -36.8 Romania. 
Service continuity index Iberia (min) 76 80 84 -4 -5.0 Iberia. 
Service continuity index Peru (min) 419 436 469 -17 -3.9 Peru. 
Service continuity index Chile (min) 184 178 230 6 3.4 Chile. 
Service continuity index Argentina (min) 1,214 1,485 1,770 -271 -18.2 Argentina 293 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Service continuity index Brazil (Ampla) (min) 793 833 1,085 -40 -4.8 Brazil. 
Service continuity index Brazil (Coelce) (min) 832 522 515 310 59.4 Brazil. 
Service continuity index Brazil (CELG) (min) 1,349 1,538 1,861 -189 -12.3 Brazil. 
Service continuity index Brazil (ELPL) (min) 375 429 --54 -12.6 Brazil. 
Service continuity index Brazil Colombia (min) 667 710 820 -43 -6.1 Colombia. 
EU12 Grid losses (3)
Grid losses Italy (%) 4.7 4.7 4.8 -Italy. 
Grid losses Romania (%) 9.7 9.8 11.0 -0.1 -Romania. 
Grid losses Iberia (%) 7.5 7.5 8.1 -Iberia. 
Grid losses Peru (%) 8.2 7.9 8.2 0.3 -Peru. 
Grid losses Chile (%) 5.0 5.0 5.1 -Chile. 
Grid losses Argentina (%) 15.5 14.9 12.0 0.6 -Argentina. 
Grid losses Brazil (Ampla) (%) 22.5 21.0 20.4 1.5 -Brazil. 
Grid losses Brazil (Coelce) (%) 14.0 13.9 13.6 0.1 -Brazil. 
Grid losses Brazil (CELG) (%) 12.3 11.6 11.7 0.7 -Brazil. 
Grid losses Brazil (ELPL) (%) 9.6 9.5 -0.1 -Brazil. 
Grid losses Colombia (%) 7.7 7.7 7.8 -Colombia. 
SERVICE QUALITY. 
ELECTRICITY MARKET ITALY 102-43. 102-44 Customer satisfaction. 
Regulated market. 
Customer Satisfaction Index (4) (i) 92.4 92.4 92.3 -Italy. 
Frequency of surveys (no.) 1 1 2 -Italy. 
Written complaints and information requests (,000) 109.4 108.5 119.8 0.9 0.8 Italy. 
Response time to written complaints (dd) 31.1 20.9 17.0 10.2 48.8 Italy. 
Free market. 
Customer Satisfaction Index (4) (i) 90.2 90.2 91.3 -Italy. 
Frequency of surveys (no.) 1 1 2 -Italy. 
Written complaints and information requests (,000) 92.3 70.2 69.7 22.1 31.5 Italy. 
Response time to written complaints (dd) 31.3 14.3 11.2 17.0 -Italy 294 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
ELECTRICITY MARKET ROMANIA. 
Customer satisfaction. 
Regulated market. 
Customer Satisfaction Index (i) 89.0 86.0 84.0 3.0 3.5 Romania. 
Written complaints and information requests (5) (,000) 100.0 80.0 112.0 20.0 25.0 Romania. 
Response time to written complaints (5) (dd) 62.0 15.0 14.0 47.0 -Romania. 
Free market. 
Customer Satisfaction Index (6) (i) 85.0 87.0 88.0 -2.0 -2.3 Romania. 
Written complaints and information requests (5) (,000) 284.0 117.0 23.2 167.0 -Romania. 
Response time to written complaints (5) (dd) 83.0 16.0 14.0 67.0 -Romania. 
ELECTRICITY MARKET IBERIA. 
Customer satisfaction. 
Regulated market (former TUR market)
Customer Satisfaction Index (i) 7.2 7.2 7.2 -Iberia. 
Written complaints and information requests (,000) 6.4 8.3 8.1 -1.9 -22.9 Iberia. 
Response time to written complaints (dd) 6.8 9.1 7.8 -2.3 -25.3 Iberia. 
Free market (former no TUR market)
Customer Satisfaction Index (i) 7.3 7.2 7.0 0.1 1.4 Iberia. 
Written complaints and information requests (,000) 12.5 12.9 14.1 -0.4 -3.1 Iberia. 
Response time to written complaints (dd) 18.1 21.1 21.9 -3.0 -14.2 Iberia. 
GAS MARKET ITALY. 
Customer satisfaction Gas (8)
Written complaints and information requests (,000) 49.7 39.5 37.5 10.2 25.8 Italy. 
Response time to written complaints (dd) 36.8 14.9 9.5 21.9 -Italy. 
GAS MARKET IBERIA. 
Customer satisfaction Gas. 
Written complaints and information requests (,000) 3.0 2.9 3.2 0.1 3.4 Spain. 
Response time to written complaints (7) (dd) 18.4 22.3 22.7 -3.9 -17.5 Spain 295 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Disputes with customers. 
Total proceedings (no.) 121,175 101,057 99,287 20,118 19.9 Enel. 
Incidence of proceedings as defendant (%) 77.9 66.5 76.3 11.4 -Enel (1) The 2017 and 2018 data has been updated following a change in methodology. The final figure as at December 31 in the year in question has been reported in place of the average figure published in the 2018 Sustainability Report. (2) The park efficiency was calculated assuming the operation of the plants at load level, where there is maximum efficiency for those plants for which the load curve is available. This assumption has not been applied to the heat component since it is already high efficiency; the availability was calculated by reducing the causes of internal unavailability. (3) Some 2017 and 2018 figures have been updated. (4) The figure is calculated on a scale of 1 to 100. For 2019, the values have been estimated on the basis of established trends. Following a change of methodology, as of 2018, the CSI (Customer Satisfaction Index) amount is determined annually rather than half-yearly as it was in 2017. (5) The increase in the 2019 amount compared to 2018 is related to the migration of data to SAP, which took place at the beginning of 2019. The complexity of the process generated backlogs. (6) The figure is calculated on a scale of 1 to 100. The fall recorded on the free market in 2019 relates to the replacement of the customer management IT platform with a more advanced one (SAP platform). The learning curve of the telephone operators was reflected in the quality of service provided. (7) The 2017 and 2018 figures include a more specific determination of the amounts. (8) The fall recorded in 2019 relates to the replacement of the customer management IT platform with a more advanced one (CRM Sales Force). The learning curve of the telephone operators has been reflected in the quality of service provided.
296 Sustainability Report 2019


Our people and their value. 
GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
SIZE AND COMPOSITION OF WORKFORCE. 
Size of workforce 102-7 Total workforce (no.) 68,253 69,272 62,900 -1,019 -1.5 Enel 401-1 Change to size (1)
New recruits (no.) 3,726 3,414 2,301 312 9.1 Enel. 
Changes in scope (no.) 75 7,704 2,931 -7,629 -99.0 Enel. 
Terminations (no.) 4,820 4,746 4,413 74 1.6 Enel. 
Balance (no.) -1,019 6,372 820 -7,391 -Enel 102-8 Workforce by geographic area and gender. 
Italy (2) (no.) 29,750 30,311 31,114 -561 -1.9 Italy - of whom men (no.) 24,052 24,562 25,413 -510 -2.1 Italy - of whom women (no.) 5,698 5,749 5,701 -51 -0.9 Italy. 
Iberia (3) (no.) 10,123 9,947 9,884 176 1.8 Iberia - of whom men (no.) 7,704 7,626 7,591 78 1.0 Iberia - of whom women (no.) 2,419 2,321 2,293 98 4.2 Iberia. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (4) (no.) 5,924 5,683 5,724 241 4.2. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs - of whom men (no.) 4,240 4,092 4,109 148 3.6. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs - of whom women (no.) 1,684 1,591 1,615 93 5.8. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
North America (5) (no.) 1,639 2,007 1,787 -368 -18.3 North America - of whom men (no.) 1,210 1,454 1,372 -244 -16.8 North America - of whom women (no.) 429 553 415 -124 -22.4 North America. 
Latin America (no.) 20,240 21,083 14,166 -843 -4.0 Latin America - of whom men (no.) 16,322 17,085 11,359 -763 -4.5 Latin America - of whom women (no.) 3,918 3,998 2,807 -80 -2.0 Latin America. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (6) (7) (no.) 577 241 195 336 - Africa, Asia and Oceania - of whom men (no.) 405 153 112 252 - Africa, Asia and Oceania 297 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope - of whom women (no.) 172 88 83 84 95.5 Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Other (8) (no.) - - 30 - - Other - of whom men (no.) - - 14 - - Other - of whom women (no.) - - 16 - - Other. 
Total workforce (no.) 68,253 69,272 62,900 -1,019 -1.5 Enel - of whom men (no.) 53,933 54,972 49,970 -1,039 -1.9 Enel - of whom women (no.) 14,320 14,300 12,930 20 0.1 Enel 405-1 Workforce by level and gender. 
Managers (no.) 1,363 1,346 1,281 17 1.3 Enel - of whom men (no.) 1,078 1,081 1,048 -3 -0.2 Enel (%) 79.1 80.3 81.8 -1.2 -Enel - of whom women (no.) 285 265 233 20 7.4 Enel (%) 20.9 19.7 18.2 1.2 -Enel. 
Middle Managers (no.) 11,329 10,985 10,416 344 3.1 Enel - of whom men (no.) 8,012 7,856 7,493 156 2.0 Enel (%) 70.7 71.5 71.9 -0.8 -Enel - of whom women (no.) 3,317 3,129 2,923 188 6.0 Enel (%) 29.3 28.5 28.1 0.8 -Enel. 
White-collar workers (no.) 36,274 34,710 32,654 1,564 4.5 Enel - of whom men (no.) 26,025 24,404 23,387 1,621 6.6 Enel (%) 71.7 70.3 71.6 1.4 -Enel - of whom women (no.) 10,249 10,306 9,267 -57 -0.5 Enel (%) 28.3 29.7 28.4 -1.4 -Enel. 
Blue-collar workers (no.) 19,287 22,231 18,549 -2,944 -13.2 Enel - of whom men (no.) 18,818 21,631 18,042 -2,813 -13.0 Enel (%) 97.6 97.3 97.3 0.3 -Enel - of whom women (no.) 469 600 507 -131 -21.8 Enel (%) 2.4 2.7 2.7 -0.3 -Enel. 
Total (no.) 68,253 69,272 62,900 -1,019 -1.5 Enel. 
Index of professional qualification. 
Managers (%) 2.0 1.9 2.0 0.1 -Enel. 
Middle Managers (%) 16.6 15.9 16.6 0.7 -Enel. 
White-collar (%) 53.1 50.1 51.9 3.0 -Enel. 
Blue-collar (%) 28.3 32.1 29.5 -3.8 -Enel 405-1 Workforce by age range and level < 30 (%) 11.6 11.8 10.2 -0.2 -Enel - of whom Managers (%) -Enel 298 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope - of whom Middle Managers (%) 0.3 0.3 0.2 -Enel - of whom White-collar (%) 5.3 4.9 4.1 0.4 -Enel - of whom Blue-collar (%) 5.9 6.6 5.9 -0.7 -Enel 30 - 50 (%) 54.6 57.0 52.2 -2.4 -Enel - of whom Managers (%) 0.9 1.1 1.0 -0.2 -Enel - of whom Middle Managers (%) 10.4 10.4 10.3 -Enel - of whom White-collar (%) 27.4 27.1 26.1 0.3 -Enel - of whom Blue-collar (%) 15.9 18.4 14.8 -2.5 -Enel > 50 (%) 33.8 31.2 37.6 2.6 -Enel - of whom Managers (%) 1.0 0.9 1.0 0.1 -Enel - of whom Middle Managers (%) 5.9 5.1 6.0 0.8 -Enel - of whom White-collar (%) 20.4 18.1 21.8 2.3 -Enel - of whom Blue-collar (%) 6.4 7.1 8.8 -0.7 -Enel. 
Average age (years) 43.8 43.3 44.1 0.5 1.2 Enel 102-8 Workforce by type of contract and gender. 
Permanent contract (no.) 64,976 68,137 62,053 -3,161 -4.6 Enel - of whom men (no.) 51,482 54,112 49,320 -2,630 -4.9 Enel - of whom women (no.) 13,494 14,025 12,733 -531 -3.8 Enel. 
Fixed-term contracts (9) (no.) 3,277 1,135 847 2,142 -Enel - of whom men (no.) 2,451 860 650 1,591 -Enel - of whom women (no.) 826 275 197 551 -Enel. 
Total contracts (no.) 68,253 69,272 62,900 -1,019 -1.5 Enel - of whom men (no.) 53,933 54,972 49,970 -1,039 -1.9 Enel - of whom women (no.) 14,320 12,930 12,930 1,390 10.7 Enel. 
Fixed-term and insertion/work contracts as percentage of total (%) 4.8 1.6 1.3 3.2 -Enel. 
Internship and traineeships (no.) 882 1,136 1,595 -254 -22.4 Enel 102-8 Workforce by type of contract and geographic area. 
Italy (no.) 29,750 30,311 31,114 -561 -1.9 Italy. 
Permanent contract (no.) 29,726 30,271 31,053 -545 -1.8 Italy. 
Fixed-term contracts (no.) 24 40 61 -16 -40.0 Italy. 
Iberia (no.) 10,123 9,947 9,884 176 1.8 Iberia. 
Permanent contract (no.) 9,733 9,610 9,637 123 1.3 Iberia 299 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Fixed-term contracts (no.) 390 337 247 53 15.7 Iberia. 
Latin America (10) (no.) 20,240 21,083 13,903 -843 -4.0 Latin America. 
Permanent contract (no.) 19,734 20,437 13,489 -703 -3.4 Latin America. 
Fixed-term contracts (9) (no.) 506 646 414 -140 -21.7 Latin America. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (no.) 5,924 5,683 5,724 241 4.2. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
Permanent contract (no.) 5,765 5,648 5,709 117 2.1. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
Fixed-term contracts (no.) 159 35 15 124 354.3. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
North America (10) (no.) 1,639 2,007 2,050 -368 -18.3 North America. 
Permanent contract (no.) 1,639 1,932 1,949 -293 -15.2 North America. 
Fixed-term contracts (no.) -75 101 -75 -100.0 North America. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) 577 241 195 336 - Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Permanent contract (no.) 569 239 189 330 - Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Fixed-term contracts (no.) 8 2 6 6 - Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Other (8) (no.) -30 -Other. 
Permanent contract (no.) -27 -Other. 
Fixed-term contracts (no.) -3 -Other 102-8 Workforce by type of contract and gender. 
Full-time contracts (no.) 67,514 68,390 61,930 -876 -1.3 Enel - of whom men (no.) 53,769 54,748 49,678 -979 -1.8 Enel - of whom women (no.) 13,745 13,642 12,252 103 0.8 Enel. 
Part-time contracts (no.) 739 882 970 -143 -16.2 Enel - of whom men (no.) 164 224 292 -60 -26.8 Enel - of whom women (no.) 575 658 678 -83 -12.6 Enel. 
Part Time + Full Time (no.) 68,253 69,272 62,900 -1,019 -1.5 Enel. 
Percentage of part-time (%) 1.1 1.3 1.5 -0.2 -Enel. 
CHANGES TO SIZE 401-1 New hires. 
New hires by gender (no.) 3,726 3,414 2,301 312 9.1 Enel 300 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Hiring rate (11) (%) 5.5 4.9 3.7 0.6 -Enel -men (no.) 2,702 2,410 1,619 292 12.1 Enel (%) 72.5 70.6 70.4 1.9 -Enel -women (no.) 1,024 1,004 682 20 2.0 Enel (%) 27.5 29.4 29.6 -1.9 -Enel. 
New hires by age range (no.) 3,726 3,414 2,301 312 9.1 Enel up to 30 (no.) 1,865 1,622 927 243 15.0 Enel (%) 50.1 47.5 40.3 2.6 -Enel from 30 to 50 (no.) 1,698 1,628 1,127 70 4.3 Enel (%) 45.5 47.7 49.0 -2.2 -Enel over 50 (no.) 163 164 247 -1 -0.6 Enel (%) 4.4 4.8 10.7 -0.4 -Enel. 
New hires by geographic area. 
Italy (no.) 1,042 796 403 246 30.9 Italy (%) 28.0 23.3 17.5 4.7 -Italy. 
Iberia (no.) 430 425 315 5 1.2 Iberia (%) 11.5 12.4 13.7 -0.9 -Iberia. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (no.) 528 345 275 183 53.0. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (%) 14.2 10.1 11.9 4.1 -
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
North America (no.) 435 594 382 -159 -26.8 North America (%) 11.7 17.4 16.6 -5.7 -32.9 North America. 
Latin America (no.) 1,098 1,182 884 -84 -7.1 Latin America (%) 29.5 34.6 38.4 -5.2 -14.9 Latin America. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) 193 72 36 121 - Africa, Asia and Oceania (%) 5.2 2.1 1.6 3.1 - Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Other (8) (no.) - - 6 - - Other (%) - - 0.3 - - Other. 
Effect of the changes in scope (no.) 75 7,704 2,931 -7,629 -99.0 Enel. 
Terminations. 
Causes. 
Voluntary terminations (no.) 1,095 1,451 794 -356 -24.5 Enel. 
Incentive based terminations (no.) 2,304 2,543 2,673 -239 -9.4 Enel. 
Retirements and other (no.) 1,421 752 946 669 89.0 Enel 301 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Total terminations (no.) 4,820 4,746 4,413 74 1.6 Enel. 
Turnover rate (12) (%) 7.1 6.9 7.0 0.2 -Enel. 
Terminations by gender -men (no.) 3,766 3,845 3,656 -79 -2.0 Enel (%) 78.1 81.0 82.8 -2.9 - Enel -women (no.) 1,054 900 757 154 17.1 Enel (%) 21.9 19.0 17.2 2.9 - Enel. 
Terminations by age range (no.) 4,820 4,746 4,413 74 1.6 Enel up to 30 (no.) 626 499 321 127 25.4 Enel (%) 13.0 10.5 7.3 2.5 - Enel from 30 to 50 (no.) 1,867 1,532 1,088 335 21.8 Enel (%) 38.7 32.3 24.6 6.4 - Enel over 50 (no.) 2,328 2,715 3,004 -388 -14.3 Enel (%) 48.3 57.2 68.1 -8.9 - Enel. 
Terminations by nationality. 
Italy (no.) 1,607 1,668 1,250 -61 -3.7 Italy (%) 33.3 35.1 28.3 -1.8 -5.1 Italy. 
Iberia (no.) 254 425 642 -171 -40.3 Iberia (%) 5.3 9.0 14.5 -3.7 -41.2 Iberia. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (no.) 369 384 407 -15 -3.9. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (%) 7.7 8.1 9.2 -0.4 -5.4. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
North America (no.) 392 374 195 18 4.8 North America (%) 8.1 7.9 4.4 0.3 - North America. 
Latin America (no.) 2,103 1,862 1,889 241 12.9 Latin America (%) 43.6 39.2 42.8 4.4 - Latin America. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) 95 33 26 62 - Africa, Asia and Oceania (%) 2.0 0.7 0.6 1.3 - Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Other (8) (no.) - - 4 - - Other (%) -0.1 - - Other. 
VALORIZATION 404-3 Assessment. 
Dissemination of assessment (13) (%) 93.3 94.8 94.8 -1.5 - Enel -men (%) 93.5 95.5 95.1 -2.0 - Enel -women (%) 92.7 92.2 93.7 0.5 - Enel 302 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
People assessed by level. 
Managers (%) 96.7 95.9 97.3 0.8 - Enel. 
Middle Managers (%) 92.5 91.2 92.3 1.3 - Enel. 
White collar (%) 94.7 94.3 97.5 0.4 - Enel. 
Blue collar (%) 90.9 94.8 91.2 -3.9 - Enel. 
Rewarding. 
Dissemination of incentives (%) 41.6 36.1 23.5 5.5 - Enel. 
Employees with individual incentives (no.) 28,367 24,976 14,799 3,391 13.6 Enel - of whom Managers (no.) 1,312 1,336 1,209 -24 -1.8 Enel - of whom Middle Managers (no.) 7,183 6,608 5,753 575 8.7 Enel - of whom White collar and Blue collar (no.) 19,872 17,032 7,837 2,840 16.7 Enel 404-1 Training. 
Training hours by employees (h/percap) 38.8 40.2 34.4 -1.4 -3.6 Enel by gender -men (h/percap) 39.7 41.2 36.4 -1.5 -3.5 Enel -women (h/percap) 35.0 36.2 25.0 -1.2 -3.3 Enel by level. 
Managers (h/percap) 58.4 40.3 38.9 18.1 44.9 Enel. 
Middle Managers (h/percap) 44.9 42.2 36.8 2.7 6.5 Enel. 
White collar (h/percap) 29.6 33.5 27.1 -3.9 -11.7 Enel. 
Blue collar (h/percap) 49.6 50.1 45.3 -0.5 -0.9 Enel. 
Total training hours (distance learning + classroom) (,000 h) 2,648 2,684 2,163 -36 -1.3 Enel. 
Training hours distance learning (,000 h) 248 212 164 36 17.1 Enel - for managerial training (,000 h) 122 105 44 17 15.9 Enel - for specialist training (,000 h) 127 107 120 20 18.3 Enel. 
Training hours in the classroom (,000 h) 2,370 2,472 1,999 -103 -4.2 Enel - for managerial training (,000 h) 719 636 484 82 12.9 Enel - for specialist training (,000 h) 1,651 1,836 1,515 -185 -10.1 Enel. 
Training hours job shadowing (on site coaching) (,000 h) 30 0.8 - 29 - Enel - for managerial training (,000 h) 30 0.6 - 29 - Enel - for specialist training (,000 h) - 0.1 - -0.1 -100.0 Enel 303 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Incidence of distance learning training (%) 9.4 7.9 7.6 1.5 - Enel. 
Total training hours by level (,000 h) 2,648 2,684 2,163 -36 -1.3 Enel. 
Managers (,000 h) 81 54 51 27 49.2 Enel. 
Middle Managers (,000 h) 495 448 371 47 10.5 Enel. 
White collar (,000 h) 1,037 1,137 884 -100 -8.8 Enel. 
Blue collar (,000 h) 1,035 1,045 857 -10 -0.9 Enel. 
Dissemination of sustainability. 
Training per capita on sustainability (h/percap) 16.5 15.5 8.2 1.0 6.4 Enel. 
Total training hours on sustainability (,000 h) 1,126 1,010 517 116 11.4 Enel. 
Digitalization (,000 h) 305 213 - 92 43.1 Enel. 
Environment (,000 h) 33 32 52 1 3.6 Enel. 
Safety (,000 h) 683 726 439 -43 -5.9 Enel 412-2 Human rights (,000 h) 13 4 - 9 - Enel. 
Other (14) (,000 h) 73 16 - 57 - Enel. 
Code of Ethics (,000 h) 19 19 26 - - Enel. 
CORPORATE WELFARE. 
Employees covered by pension plan (benefit plan) (no.) 47,688 47,100 43,074 588 1.2 Enel. 
Employees covered by pension plan (benefit plan) (%) 69.9 68.0 68.5 1.9 -Enel. 
EU15 Employees entitled to retire in next 5 to 10 years. 
Pension within 5 years - Enel. 
Managers (%) 6.5 4.6 6.9 1.9 -Enel. 
Middle Managers (%) 6.4 4.3 5.7 2.1 -Enel. 
White collar (%) 9.1 6.3 6.9 2.8 -Enel. 
Blue collar (%) 6.0 4.8 5.5 1.2 -Enel. 
Average (%) 7.7 5.4 6.5 2.3 -Enel. 
Pension within 10 years - Enel. 
Managers (%) 19.4 14.4 17.3 5.0 -Enel. 
Middle Managers (%) 18.7 14.0 15.1 4.7 -Enel. 
White collar (%) 23.6 18.8 17.5 4.8 -Enel. 
Blue collar (%) 15.5 14.8 13.5 0.7 -Enel 304 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Average (%) 20.4 15.7 16.7 4.7 -Enel. 
MATERNITY/PATERNITYPARENTAL LEAVE. 
Parental leave by gender (no.) 2,654 2,486 2,429 168 6.8 Enel. 
Men (no.) 1,653 1,412 1,297 241 17.1 Enel. 
Women (no.) 1,001 1,074 1,132 -73 -6.8 Enel. 
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES. 
Level of female staff (15) (%) 28.4 27.5 27.0 0.9 -Enel 405-2 Ratio of basic salary/ remuneration Women/ Men. 
Ratio of basic salary Women/Men (%) 106.9 103.5 101.9 3.4 -Enel. 
Managers (%) 87.4 84.6 82.3 2.8 -Enel. 
Middle Managers (%) 97.5 92.8 95.4 4.7 -Enel. 
White collar (%) 86.4 87.5 92.2 -1.1 -Enel. 
Blue collar (%) 70.2 90.0 85.1 -19.8 -Enel. 
Ratio of remuneration Women/Men (%) 106.6 n.a. n.a. -Enel. 
Managers (%) 83.7 n.a. n.a. -Enel. 
Middle Managers (%) 96.3 n.a. n.a. -Enel. 
White collar (%) 85.8 n.a. n.a. -Enel. 
Blue collar (%) 72.9 n.a. n.a. -Enel 405-1 Disability. 
Disabled or belonging to protected categories by gender (no.) 2,254 2,194 1,943 60 2.7 Enel - of whom men (no.) 1,565 1,494 1,364 71 4.8 Enel - of whom women (no.) 689 700 579 -11 -1.6 Enel. 
Incidence of disabled or belonging to protected categories by gender (16) (%) 3.3 3.2 3.2 0.1 -Enel - of whom men (%) 2.3 2.2 2.2 0.1 -Enel - of whom women (%) 1.0 1.0 0.9 - -Enel. 
Disabled or belonging to protected categories by level. 
Managers (no.) - - 1 - - Enel 305 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Middle Managers (no.) 141 100 88 41 41.0 Enel. 
White collar (no.) 1,941 1,913 1,761 28 1.5 Enel. 
Blue collar (no.) 172 181 132 -9 -5.0 Enel. 
Incidence of disabled or belonging to protected categories by level (16)
Managers (%) - - - - -Enel. 
Middle Managers (%) 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 -Enel. 
White collar (%) 2.8 2.8 2.8 -0.1 -Enel. 
Blue collar (%) 0.3 0.3 0.2 - -Enel. 
WORKING FROM HOME. 
Telecommuting license. 
Employees with telecommuting license by gender (no.) 1,042 1,554 2,671 -512 -32.9 Enel - of whom men (no.) 398 702 1,274 -304 -43.3 Enel - of whom women (no.) 644 852 1,397 -208 -24.4 Enel. 
Employees with telecommuting license by gender (16) (%) 1.5 2.2 4.2 -0.7 -Enel - of whom men (%) 0.6 1.0 2.0 -0.4 -Enel - of whom women (%) 0.9 1.2 2.2 -0.3 -Enel 102-41 RELATIONS WITH UNIONS. 
Union membership in the electricity sector (%) 37.9 39.7 47.4 -1.8 -Enel. 
Employees covered by collective agreements by geographic area. 
Total Enel (no.) 62,252 63,410 57,828 -1,159 -1.8 Enel (%) 91.2 91.5 91.9 -0.3 -Enel. 
Italy (no.) 29,741 30,296 31,114 -555 -1.8 Italy (%) 100.0 100.0 100.0 - -Italy. 
Iberia (no.) 9,161 9,036 8,995 125 1.4 Iberia (%) 90.5 90.8 91.0 -0.3 -Iberia. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (no.) 5,308 5,237 5,413 71 1.4. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (%) 89.6 92.2 94.6 -2.6 -
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
Latin America (10) (no.) 17,980 18,817 12,035 -837 -4.4 Latin America (%) 88.8 89.3 86.7 -0.4 -Latin America. 
North America (10) (no.) 24 24 215 - - North America 306 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope (%) 1.5 1.2 10.5 0.3 -North America. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) 38 - 55 38 - Africa, Asia and Oceania (%) 6.6 - 28.2 6.6 - Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Other (no.) - 1 -Other (%) - 3.3 -Other. 
Dispute with employees. 
Total proceedings (17) (no.) 10,566 13,350 3,496 -2,784 -20.9 Enel. 
Incidence of proceedings as defendant (%) 86.2 98.7 80.7 -12.5 -Enel (1) The companies Tradewind Energy in the United States, YouSave SpA and PayTipper in Italy, were acquired in 2019. (2) Includes Branch Enel Produzione (Russia, Slovakia), Enelpower (Saudi Arabia), Branch Enel Trading (Algeria), Enel New Hydro and Dutch financial companies. (3) Includes International Endesa BV (IEBV). (4) The following countries are considered within this scope: Romania, Russia, Bulgaria, Greece, Egypt, France, Germany, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, United Kingdom, Ireland, Norway, Poland and the Croatia Branch. (5) Of employees in North America, 1,050 EnerNOC employees were considered, 52% of whom are in North America and 48% in other countries (Latin America, Europe, Asia and Oceania). (6) Following the corporate restructuring, since 2018 Morocco has been considered within the scope of Africa, Asia and Oceania. (7) The following countries are considered within the scope: India, Kenya, South Africa, Zambia, Indonesia, Australia, Morocco, Singapore, Japan, Taiwan, New Zealand and Korea. (8) The Branches listed under “Other” in 2017 have been redistributed as defined above. (9) The data also includes 14 de obra (temporary) work contracts for 2019 and 2018, as well as 4 trainee contracts for Latin America in 2017. (10) Following reorganisation, 2017 data has not been restated due to the passing of Costa Rica, Panama and Guatemala from the North America to the Latin America scope. (11) Hiring rate = Total new recruits/Total workforce. (12) Turnover rate = Total terminations/Total workforce. (13) Forecast data, since the closure of the assessment process has been postponed to May 2, 2020 due to the Covid-19 crisis. The lower amount compared to 2018 is due to the staff of the R-GRES plant (whose sale is nearing completion) being removed from the assessment process. (14) Includes training relating to privacy, anti-bribery, community relations and diversity. (15) Level of female staff = Female Managers + Middle Managers/Total Managers + Middle Managers. (16) The incidence is calculated on the total number of employees rather than the total of the category in question. (17) The 2019 figure only includes the procedures relating to Enel and retired staff, and not the procedures relating to third parties.
307 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope 203-1 INITIATIVES IN FAVOR OF THE COMMUNITY. 
Contributions to communities - LBG method. 
Charitable donations (1) (mil euros) 4.6 5.7 10.3 -1.2 -20.7 Enel. 
Investments in communities (mil euros) 80.2 85.0 52.0 -4.8 -5.6 Enel. 
Commercial initiatives with a social impact (mil euros) 37.4 23.8 28.3 13.6 57.4 Enel. 
Socially sustainable business initiatives (mil euros) -Enel. 
Total (expense + investments) (mil euros) 122.2 114.5 90.6 7.7 6.7 Enel. 
Enel Cuore Onlus. 
Solidarity projects supported by Enel Cuore (2) (no.) 24 34 30 -10.0 -29.4 Italy. 
Sums provided to Enel Cuore Onlus by Enel Group companies (mil euros) 5.5 5.4 5.8 0.1 1.9 Italy. 
Subscription fees (mil euros) 0.3 0.3 0.3 -Italy. 
Extraordinary contribution from associates (3) (mil euros) 5.0 5.0 5.5 -Italy. 
Tied donations (mil euros) 0.2 0.1 -0.1 100.0 Italy. 
EU25 SAFETY FOR COMMUNITIES. 
Third-party injuries. 
Severe and fatal thirdparty injuries (no.) 247 90 80 157.0 -Enel - fatal (no.) 120 59 40 61.0 -Enel - severe (no.) 127 31 40 96.0 -Enel. 
Third-party injuries by type. 
Electricity injuries (%) 89.9 80.0 81.3 9.9 -Enel. 
Road accidents against Group infrastructure (4) (%) 6.5 16.7 12.5 -10.2 -Enel. 
Accidents for other reasons (slipping. falling from height. crash-crush-cut) (%) 3.6 3.3 6.3 0.3 -Enel. 
Communities and shared value 308 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Causes of electricity accident. 
Construction activities near power lines (%) 62.6 52.8 24.6 9.8 -Enel. 
Attempted theft (4) (%) 15.8 29.2 27.7 -13.4 -Enel. 
Other (5) (%) 21.6 18.1 47.7 3.5 -Enel (1) This data includes grants made to Enel Cuore over the years. (2) The 2018 data has been updated. (3) As happened for the previous years, the amount of 5 million euros for 2019 refers to the total amount allocated to Enel Cuore Onlus, by way of the “Extraordinary Contribution 2019”, by some of the associated companies of the latter (e-distribuzione SpA, Enel Energia SpA, Enel Produzione SpA, Enel Italy Srl, Enel Green Power SpA). As of December 31, 2019, the amount actually paid by the same companies is 679,000 euros; the remaining 3,321,000 euros will be disbursed in 2020. The 2017 data has been reclassified. (4) The 2017 data has been updated. (5) Mainly due to accidental contact with metal wires, agricultural work and plant cutting activities, among other things.
309 Performance indicators


Innovation and digitalization. 
GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
DMA EU RESEARCH AND INNOVATION. 
Technological innovation (1) (mil euros) 84 135 94 -50 -37.4 Enel. 
Research personnel (2) (no.) 472 462 409 10 2.2 Enel. 
PROMOTION OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY. 
End users (final) (no.) 73,258,840 72,945,664 65,482,627 313,175 0.4 Enel. 
Active clients with smart meters (3) (no.) 44,668,538 43,770.085 42,622,169 898,453 2.1 Enel. 
Active clients with smart meters/End users (final) (%) 61.0 60.0 65.1 1.0 -Enel (1) Around 40% of investment in Research and Innovation concerned the Global Power Generation Line, while 49% was for the Infrastructure and Networks Line. (2) The 2017 figure has been reclassified. (3) 2019 share for smart meter 2.0 amounting to 13.1 million.
310 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
SAFETY (1)
Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate. LTIFR (2) Enel (i) 0.18 0.19 0.24 -0.01 -5.3 Enel. 
Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate. LTIFR (2) Contractors (i) 0.13 0.17 0.19 -0.04 -23.5 Enel. 
Enel People 403-9 Number of fatalities and frequency rate (3)
Number of fatalities (no.) 1 1 2 -Enel. 
Fatalities by geographical area. 
Italy (no.) -Italy. 
Iberia (4) (no.) 1 -1 1 -Iberia. 
Latin America (no.) -1 1 -1 -100.0 Latin America. 
North America (no.) -- North America. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (no.) --
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) -- Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Fatalities frequency rate (i) 0.008 0.009 0.018 -0.001 -11.2 Enel. 
Fatalities frequency rate by geographical area. 
Italy (i) -Italy. 
Iberia (4) (i) 0.059 -0.060 0.059 -Iberia. 
Latin America (i) -0.034 0.037 -0.034 -100.0 Latin America. 
North America (i) -- North America. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (i) --
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) -- Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Occupational health and safety 311 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Number of “highconsequence” injuries (5) (excluding fatalities) and frequency rate (6)
Number of “highconsequence” injuries (no.) 3 5 1 -2 -40.0 Enel. 
Number of “highconsequence” injuries by geographical area. 
Italy (no.) 2 3 1 -1 -33.3 Italy. 
Iberia (4) (no.) -Iberia. 
Latin America (no.) -2 --2 -100.0 Latin America. 
North America (no.) -- North America. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (no.) 1 -1 -
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) -- Africa, Asia and Oceania “High-consequence” injuries frequency rate (i) 0.023 0.044 0.009 -0.020 -46.7 Enel “High-consequence” injuries frequency rate by geographical area. 
Italy (i) 0.037 0.055 0.018 -0.018 -32.0 Italy. 
Iberia (4) (i) -Iberia. 
Latin America (i) -0.069 --0.069 -100.0 Latin America. 
North America (i) -- North America. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (i) 0.094 -0.094 -
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) -- Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Total number of injuries (7) and frequency rate (8)
Number of injuries (no.) 116 108 133 8 7.4 Enel. 
Injuries by geographical area. 
Italy (no.) 59 60 68 -1 -1.7 Italy. 
Iberia (4) (no.) 6 6 5 -Iberia. 
Latin America (no.) 46 41 57 5 12.2 Latin America. 
North America (no.) -1 -- North America. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (no.) 5 1 2 4 -
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) -- Africa, Asia and Oceania 312 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Injury frequency rate (i) 0.899 0.943 1.199 -0.044 -4.7 Enel. 
Frequency rate by geographical area. 
Italy (i) 1.106 1.104 1.237 0.002 0.1 Italy. 
Iberia (4) (i) 0.352 0.366 0.300 -0.014 -3.7 Iberia. 
Latin America (i) 1.049 1.408 2.108 -0.359 -25.5 Latin America. 
North America (i) -0.673 -- North America. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (i) 0.472 0.097 0.193 0.375 -
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) -- Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Worked hours (no.) 129,068,627 114,552,443 110,927,204 14,516,184 12.7 Enel 403-9 Contractors. 
Number of fatalities and frequency rate (2)
Number of fatalities (9) (no.) 6 7 11 -1 -14.3 Enel. 
Fatalities by geographical area. 
Italy (no.) 1 2 3 -1 -50.0 Italy. 
Iberia (4) (no.) -Iberia. 
Latin America (no.) 4 5 7 -1 -20.0 Latin America. 
North America (no.) -- North America. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (no.) 1 -1 1 -
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) -- Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Fatalities frequency rate (i) 0.022 0.030 0.051 -0.008 -25.3 Enel. 
Fatalities frequency rate by geographical area. 
Italy (i) 0.024 0.049 0.078 -0.025 -51.0 Italy. 
Iberia (4) (i) -Iberia. 
Latin America (i) 0.026 0.038 0.058 -0.012 -32.4 Latin America. 
North America (i) -- North America. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (i) 0.061 -0.073 0.061 -
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) -- Africa, Asia and Oceania 313 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Number of “highconsequence” injuries (5) (excluding fatalities) and frequency rate (6)
Number of “highconsequence” injuries (no.) 16 13 12 3 23.1 Enel. 
Number of “highconsequence” injuries by geographical area. 
Italy (no.) 5 2 7 3 -Italy. 
Iberia (4) (no.) 2 4 2 -2 -50.0 Iberia. 
Latin America (no.) 6 7 2 -1 -14.3 Latin America. 
North America (no.) 3 -3 - North America. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (no.) -1 --
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) -- Africa, Asia and Oceania “High-consequence” injuries frequency rate (i) 0.059 0.055 0.056 0.004 7.2 Enel “High-consequence” injuries frequency rate by geographical area. 
Italy (i) 0.120 0.049 0.183 0.071 -Italy. 
Iberia (4) (i) 0.048 0.101 0.058 -0.053 -52.2 Iberia. 
Latin America (i) 0.038 0.053 0.016 -0.015 -27.6 Latin America. 
North America (i) 0.314 -0.314 - North America. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (i) -0.073 --
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) -- Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Total number of injuries (7) and frequency rate (8)
Number of injuries (no.) 176 205 209 -29 -14.1 Enel. 
Injuries by geographical area. 
Italy (no.) 42 56 60 -14 -25.0 Italy. 
Iberia (4) (no.) 32 34 34 -2 -5.9 Iberia. 
Latin America (no.) 90 111 100 -21 -18.9 Latin America. 
North America (no.) 7 1 10 6 - North America. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (no.) 5 3 5 2 66.7. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (no.) -- Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Injury frequency rate (i) 0.653 0.873 0.969 -0.220 -25.2 Enel 314 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Frequency rate by geographical area. 
Italy (i) 1.008 1.367 1.570 -0.359 -26.3 Italy. 
Iberia (4) (i) 0.772 0.859 0.990 -0.087 -10.1 Iberia. 
Latin America (i) 0.574 0.838 0.823 -0.264 -31.5 Latin America. 
North America (i) 0.733 0.276 1.410 0.457 - North America. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs (i) 0.304 0.175 0.365 0.129 73.7. 
Europe and EuroMediterranean Affairs. 
Africa, Asia and Oceania (i) -- Africa, Asia and Oceania. 
Hours worked (no.) 269,484,178 234,755,218 215,608,456 34,728,960 14.8 Enel. 
CONTRACTORS. 
EU 18 Health and safety training Contractors and subcontractors employees that have undergone health and safety training and information (%) 100 100 100 -Enel. 
Construction activities (%) 100 100 100 -Enel. 
Operation and maintenance activities (%) 100 100 100 -Enel - of which operation activities (%) 100 100 100 -Enel - of which maintenance activities (%) 100 100 100 -Enel (1) The 2018 rates and data in this chapter do not include the companies acquired during 2018 (Eletropaulo, YouSave, Empresa de Alumbrado Eléctrico de Ceuta and Empresa de Alumbrado Eléctrico de Ceuta Distribución). Given their only recent acquisition, these companies will be consolidated as of financial year 2019, in order to align the systems and respective reporting procedures. (2) The Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is calculated by proportioning the number of injuries with hours worked*200,000. (3) This rate is calculated by proportioning the number of fatalities with hours worked/1,000,000. (4) In 2019 and 2018, Iberia includes Spain and Portugal. In 2017, it includes Spain, Portugal and Morocco. (5) Sum of: - injuries that resulted in more than 6 months’ absence from work as at December 31, 2019; - injuries that are still open and considered severe (initial prognosis > 30 days) as at December 31, 2019; - injuries categorised as “Life Changing Accidents” (LCAs), regardless of the resulting days of absence from work. (6) This rate is calculated by proportioning the number of “High Consequence” injuries with hours worked/1,000,000. (7) Includes all injuries (including those with 3 days of absence or fewer). (8) This rate is calculated by proportioning the number of injuries with hours worked/1,000,000. (9) Considering all areas where the Group operates and the activities managed, including companies consolidated using the equity method and companies for which the BSO (Build, Sell and Operate) mechanism has been applied, the total value of fatalities in 2018 is 8.
315 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
NATURE OF SUPPLIERS. 
Number of suppliers with which a new contract was signed in the year (no.) 29,370 31,434 31,329 -2,064 -6.6 Enel 102-8. 
Workforce of contracting and subcontracting companies (1) (no.) 153,116 133,384 122,505 19,732 14.8 Enel. 
Training hours and information of employees of the contractors (2) (no.) 860,732 885,938 822,173 -25,206 -2.8 Enel. 
Days worked by employees of contractors and subcontractors (,000 d) 33,686 29,344 26,951 4,341 14.8 Enel. 
Construction activity (,000 d) 10,052 7,435 8,368 2,617 35.2 Enel. 
Operating and maintenance activity (,000 d) 23,633 21,909 18,583 1,724 7.9 Enel - of which operating activity (,000 d) 7,090 6,573 5,575 517 7.9 Enel - of which maintenance activity (,000 d) 16,543 15,337 13,008 1,207 7.9 Enel. 
Concentration of material and service suppliers (top 15) (%) 41.3 41.3 47.6 -Enel 204-1 Local suppliers of materials and services (3)
Local suppliers with contracts > 1 mil euros (no.) 1,167 1,403 1,143 -236 -16.8 Enel. 
Foreign suppliers with contracts > 1 mil euros (no.) 157 197 158 -40 -20.3 Enel. 
Spending on local suppliers with contracts > 1 mil euros (mil euros) 9,169 11,173 8,288 -2,004 -17.9 Enel. 
Spending on foreign suppliers with contracts > 1 mil euros (mil euros) 1,131 1,912 707 -781 -40.8 Enel. 
Concentration of spending on local suppliers (%) 88.0 85.4 92.1 2.6 -Enel. 
Concentration of spending on foreign suppliers (%) 12.0 14.6 7.9 -2.6 -Enel. 
Purchases and fuel. 
Purchases of materials and services (mil euros) 14,375 15,073 10,683 -698 -4.6 Enel. 
Sustainable supply chain 316 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Supplies (mil euros) 5,245 5,726 2,829 -481 -8.4 Enel. 
Works (mil euros) 3,702 3,656 3,713 46 1.3 Enel. 
Services (mil euros) 5,428 5,691 4,141 -263 -4.6 Enel. 
Fuel purchases (4) (mil euros) 3,898 4,629 4,652 -731 -15.8 Enel. 
Gas (mil euros) 1,952 2,024 1,611 -73 -3.6 Enel. 
Oil (mil euros) 970 906 834 64 7.0 Enel. 
Coal/Lignite/Biomass (mil euros) 976 1,698 2,207 -722 -42.5 Enel. 
Management instruments Active qualified companies (no.) 8,198 6,300 6,755 1,898 30.1 Enel. 
Online tenders as percentage of all tenders (%) 77.8 62.9 61.1 14.9 -Enel. 
Online purchases as percentage of all purchases (%) 69.5 71.1 57.0 -1.6 -Enel. 
Use of prescription (%) 18.1 15.4 21.3 2.7 -Enel 103-2 Disputes involving suppliers. 
Total proceedings (no.) 467 465 469 2 0.4 Enel. 
Incidence of proceedings as defendant (%) 80.7 77.8 85.1 2.9 -Enel (1) Calculated in FTE (Full Time Equivalent). (2) The figure also includes health and safety training and information courses provided by Enel staff to access the Group’s construction and/or operating sites. (3) “Local suppliers” are defined as suppliers with their registered office in the country where the supply contract was issued. (4) The 2018 figures have been recalculated.
317 Performance indicators


Sound governance. 
GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope 102-5 SHAREHOLDERS. 
Composition of shareholdings. 
Investors (1)
Ministry of Economy and Finance (%) 23.6 23.6 23.6 - - Enel SpA. 
Institutional investors (%) 60.3 57.6 57.5 2.7 - Enel SpA. 
Retail shareholders (%) 16.1 18.8 18.9 -2.7 - Enel SpA. 
Location of institutional investors. 
Italy (%) 5.8 6.8 7.4 -1.0 - Enel SpA. 
UK (%) 13.7 16.0 18.3 -2.3 - Enel SpA. 
Rest of Europe (%) 26.2 28.9 27.3 -2.7 - Enel SpA. 
North America (%) 46.7 40.9 38.9 5.8 - Enel SpA. 
Rest of the world (%) 7.6 7.4 8.1 0.2 - Enel SpA. 
Concentration index (top 50) (%) 39.4 37.6 37.0 1.8 - Enel SpA. 
Investment style of institutional investors. 
Long Only (%) 73.0 83.4 71.4 -10.4 - Enel SpA. 
Index (%) 12.9 9.3 13.1 3.6 - Enel SpA. 
Hedge (%) 0.8 6.9 0.8 -6.1 - Enel SpA. 
Other (%) 13.3 0.4 14.7 12.9 - Enel SpA. 
Socially Responsible Investors (SRI)
Presence of SRI (no.) 182 169 160 13 7.7 Enel SpA. 
Enel shares held by SRI (mil) 1,095 1,064 878 31 2.9 Enel SpA. 
Weight of SRI in institutional shareholdings (2) (%) 20.1 20.6 16.9 -0.5 - Enel SpA. 
Location of SRI investors (3)
Italy (%) 5.3 1.4 1.4 3.9 - Enel SpA. 
UK (%) 11.4 13.2 13.2 -1.8 - Enel SpA. 
Rest of Europe (%) 42.3 51.0 51.0 -8.7 - Enel SpA. 
North America (%) 36.7 32.8 32.8 3.9 - Enel SpA. 
Rest of the world (%) 4.3 1.6 1.6 2.7 - Enel SpA 318 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Share price performance. 
Financial performance of the share (4)
Enel (%) 40.2 -1.7 22.5 41.9 - Enel SpA. 
FTSEMib (%) 28.3 -16.1 13.6 44.4 - Enel SpA. 
Endesa (%) 21.1 11.6 -11.3 9.5 - Endesa. 
Enel Américas (formerly Enersis) (%) 36.3 -10.6 27.2 46.9 - Enel Américas. 
Enel Chile (%) 5.3 -8.0 19.5 13.3 - Enel Chile. 
Enel Russia (%) -9.1 -30.0 46.7 20.9 - Enel Russia. 
Ibex 35 (%) 12.6 -15.4 7.5 28.0 - Enel SpA. 
MICEX (%) 29.3 11.8 -5.5 17.5 - Enel SpA. 
IPSA (%) -8.5 -8.3 34.0 -0.2 - Enel SpA. 
Dividend Yield (5)
Enel (%) 4.6 5.6 4.5 -1.0 - Enel SpA. 
A2A (%) 4.6 3.7 2.9 0.9 - Enel SpA. 
Centrica (%) 13.4 8.9 9.6 4.5 - Enel SpA. 
Iberdrola (%) 3.8 4.7 4.6 -0.9 - Enel SpA. 
RWE (%) 2.6 3.7 0.9 -1.1 - Enel SpA. 
E.ON (%) 5.2 5.0 2.4 0.2 - Enel SpA. 
Engie (formerly GDF-Suez) (%) 5.6 6.0 7.0 -0.4 - Enel SpA. 
EdF (%) 4.8 2.2 7.5 2.6 - Enel SpA. 
EdP (%) 4.9 6.2 6.6 -1.3 - Enel SpA. 
Enel on the main stock markets worldwide. 
FTSE Italy All Share (%) 13.2 12.1 10.0 1.1 - Enel SpA. 
BEELECT (%) 14.8 13.7 13.5 1.1 - Enel SpA. 
Enel in the FTSE4GOOD sustainability index (i) Yes Yes Yes - - Enel SpA. 
Presence of Enel in the DJSI (i) Yes Yes Yes - - Enel SpA. 
Return for the shareholder EPS (Earnings Per Share) (cent euro) 47 40 36 7 17.5 Enel SpA. 
TSR (Total Shareholder Return) from IPO (accumulated) (%) 212.7 112.4 106.1 100.3 - Enel SpA. 
TSR from IPO (annualized) (%) 5.8 4.0 4.1 1.8 - Enel SpA. 
TSR last 2 years (accumulated) (%) 51.7 31.4 42.8 20.3 - Enel SpA. 
TSR last 2 years (annualized) (%) 23.2 14.7 19.5 8.5 - Enel SpA 319 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Communication to shareholders 102-43 Information requests from retail shareholders (6) (no.) 41 75 85 -34 -45.3 Enel SpA. 
LENDERS. 
Debt. 
Total debt (mil euros) 45,175 41,089 37,410 4,086 9.9 Enel. 
Debt to Equity (i) 1.0 0.9 0.7 0.1 6.7 Enel. 
Rating. 
S&P (i) BBB+ BBB+ BBB+ - - Enel. 
Outlook (i) Stable Outlook Stable Outlook Stable Outlook - - Enel. 
Moody’s (i) Baa2 Baa2 Baa2 - - Enel. 
Outlook (i) Positive Stable Outlook Stable Outlook - - Enel. 
Fitch (i) AABBB+ - - Enel. 
Outlook (i) Stable Outlook Stable Outlook Stable Outlook - - Enel 405-1 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE. 
Board of Directors (BoD)
Members of BoD by type (i) 9 9 9 - - Enel SpA. 
Executive members (no.) 1 1 1 - - Enel SpA. 
Non-executive members (no.) 8 8 8 - - Enel SpA - of whom independent (7) (no.) 7 7 7 - - Enel SpA. 
Directors nominated by minority shareholders (no.) 3 3 3 - - Enel SpA. 
Women on BoD of the Group. 
Women on the BoD of Enel SpA (no.) 3 3 3 - - Enel SpA. 
Women on the BoD of Group companies (no.) 181 215 200 -34 -15.8 Enel. 
Members of the BoD by age group. 
Under 30 years old (%) - - - - - Enel SpA 30 - 50 years old (%) - 11 11 -11 - Enel SpA. 
Over 50 years old (%) 100 89 89 11 - Enel SpA. 
BoD meetings (no.) 14 18 15 -4 -22.2 Enel SpA. 
ETHICAL AUDITING 103-2 Implementation of the Code of Ethics. 
Reports received by type of stakeholder (no.) 166 144 123 22 15.3 Enel. 
Internal stakeholders (no.) 30 25 21 5 20.0 Enel 320 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
External stakeholders (no.) 23 40 34 -17 -42.5 Enel. 
Anonymous (no.) 113 79 68 34 43.0 Enel. 
Reports received for harmed or potentially harmed stakeholder (no.) 166 144 123 22 15.3 Enel. 
Shareholder (no.) 66 67 51 -1 -1.5 Enel. 
Customer (no.) 7 12 27 -5 -41.7 Enel. 
Employee (no.) 69 45 26 24 53.3 Enel. 
General public (no.) 9 3 3 6 - Enel. 
Suppliers (no.) 15 17 16 -2 -11.8 Enel. 
Reports received by status (no.) 166 144 123 22 15.3 Enel. 
Reports being assessed (no.) 7 7 - - Enel. 
Reports for which a violation has not been confirmed (no.) 123 107 92 16 15.0 Enel. 
Reports for which a violation has been confirmed (no.) 36 30 31 6 20.0 Enel. 
Reports related to (no.) 166 144 123 22 15.3 Enel. 
Conflict of interests/ Bribery/Corruption (no.) 35 33 27 2 6.1 Enel. 
Misappropriation (no.) 34 42 53 -8 -19.0 Enel. 
Work practices (no.) 74 38 22 36 94.7 Enel. 
Community and society (no.) 3 -1 3 - Enel. 
Other reasons (no.) 20 31 20 -11 -35.5 Enel. 
Violations confirmed by type of harmed stakeholder (8) (no.) 36 31 31 5 16.1 Enel. 
Shareholder (no.) 18 19 12 -1 -5.3 Enel. 
Customer (no.) 1 -6 1 - Enel. 
Employee (no.) 10 8 8 2 25.0 Enel. 
General public (no.) 2 - 2 2 - Enel. 
Suppliers (no.) 5 4 3 1 25.0 Enel 103-2. 406-1. 
Violations related to incidents of (8) (no.) 36 31 31 5 16.1 Enel 205-3 Conflict of interests/ Bribery/Corruption (9) (no.) 8 10 7 -2 -20.0 Enel. 
Misappropriation (no.) 11 7 15 4 57.1 Enel. 
Work practices (no.) 11 8 6 3 37.5 Enel. 
Community and society (no.) - - 1 - - Enel. 
Other reasons (no.) 6 6 2 - - Enel. 
Violations regarding incidents of conflict of interest/corruption, by country (no.) 8 10 7 -2 -20.0 Enel 321 Performance indicators


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Argentina (no.) - 1 - -1 -100.0 Argentina. 
Brazil (no.) 2 1 1 1 100.0 Brazil. 
Chile (no.) 2 4 1 -2 -50.0 Chile. 
Colombia (no.) 1 1 2 - - Colombia. 
Italy (no.) - 1 2 -1 -100.0 Italy. 
Peru (no.) 1 - - 1 - Peru. 
Romania (no.) 1 - - 1 - Romania. 
Russia (no.) - 2 - -2 -100.0 Russia. 
Spain (no.) 1 - 1 1 - Spain. 
Actions taken in response to incidents of conflict of interest/ corruption (no.) 11 13 9 -2 -15.4 Enel - of which: actions taken against employees in response to cases of conflict of interest/ corruption 7 7 6 - - Enel - of which: actions taken against contractors in response to cases of conflict of interest/ corruption 4 6 3 -2 -33.3 Enel. 
Significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses (no.) 4 9 6 -5 -55.6 Enel. 
Percentage of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses (%) 100 100 100 - - Enel. 
INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONS 201-4 Grants (10)
Grants supplied in the period by geographic area (mil euros) 10.4 83.2 66.7 -72.8 -87.5 Enel. 
Italy (mil euros) 8.6 81.8 64.6 -73.2 -89.5 Italy. 
Spain (mil euros) 1.7 0.9 0.6 0.8 88.9 Spain. 
Brazil (mil euros) - - - - - Brazil. 
Colombia (mil euros) 0.1 0.5 1.5 -0.4 -80.0 Colombia. 
Chile (mil euros) - - - - -Chile. 
Grants received by destination. 
Energy networks (%) 35.7 88.8 90.9 -53.1 -Enel. 
R&D (%) 59.3 1.3 4.3 58.0 -Enel. 
Renewable (%) 1.8 2.4 3.8 -0.6 -Enel 322 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI/ EUSS KPI UM December 2019 December 2018 December 2017 2019-2018 % Scope. 
Training (%) - - - - -Enel. 
Other (%) 3.2 7.6 1.0 -4.4 - Enel. 
Number of projects which received grants (no.) 38 88 42 -50 -56.8 Enel. 
Loans granted by the EIB and others. 
Remaining debt on loans from EIB and others by geographic area (mil euros) 6,561 6,279 4,983 282 4.5 Enel - Italy (mil euros) 3,763 3,760 3,608 3 0.1 Italy - Abroad (Latin America, Spain, Slovakia, Russia, Romania) (mil euros) 2,798 2,519 1,375 279 11.1 Enel. 
Remaining debt on loans from EIB and others by destination. 
Energy networks (%) 37.5 66.9 66.7 -29.4 - Enel. 
R&D (%) 51.8 0.1 0.1 51.7 - Enel. 
Renewable (%) 5.6 29.7 24.7 -24.1 - Enel. 
Training (%) - - - - - Enel. 
Other (%) 5.1 3.2 8.5 1.9 - Enel. 
Number of projects in progress approved with loans from EIB and others (no.) 128 171 123 -43 -25.1 Enel. 
Taxes (mil euros) 2,069 3,168 3,273 -1,099 -34.7 Enel. 
IRES, IRAP and other taxes (mil euros) 665 1,076 1,264 -411 -38.2 Enel. 
Taxes abroad (mil euros) 171 775 618 -604 -77.9 Enel. 
Other taxes and duties (mil euros) 1,062 1,150 1,222 -88 -7.7 Enel. 
Fees net of contributions received (mil euros) 171 167 169 4 2.4 Enel. 
Policy Influence. 
Lobbying, interest representation or similar (euros) -Enel. 
Local, regional or national political campaigns. organizations/candidates (euros) -Enel. 
Contributions made to trade or employers’ associations (euros) 7,882,037 8,287,592 8,991,413 -405,555 -4.9 Enel. 
Other (for example, spending related to ballot measures or referendums) (euros) -Enel. 
Total contributions and other spending (11) (euros) 7,882,037 8,287,592 8,991,413 -405,555 -4.9 Enel 323 Performance indicators


(1) The institutional investor is an entity who, under a specific mandate or on their own account, undertakes equity and/or property investment on a continuous and professional basis. The category includes: mutual funds, pension funds, hedge funds, investment and merchant banks, insurance companies. (2) Calculated comparing the number of shares held by identified Socially Responsible Investors (SRIs) with the number of shares held by identified institutional investors. (3) SRIs are investors who state that they include environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors in their traditional financial analyses in order to guide their investment decisions (inclusion of at least one ESG criterion and adhesion to the main international principles approved by organisations such as UNPRI, UKSIF, EUROSIF are among the key factors in order to classify an investor as an SRI). (4) Calculated as the difference between the valuation on the last open market day of the year and the valuation of the previous year. (5) Source: Bloomberg and Company filings. (6) Only requests received have been considered, not the responses provided. (7) The number of independent directors pursuant to the Consolidated Law on Finance (TUF) is 8 (including the Chairperson). The number of independent directors pursuant to the Corporate Governance Code is 7 because the Code does not allow the Chairperson to be considered independent since he/she is a “senior representative” of the company. (8) In 2019, the analysis of reports received in 2018 was completed, and, for this reason, the number of confirmed violations for 2018 was restated from 30 to 31. The additional violation is attributable to reasons of a supplier’s compliance with the law on overtime. (9) Corruption consists of the abuse of power with the goal of private gain and can be instigated by individuals in the public or private sector. It is interpreted here as including corrupt practices such as bribery, fraud, extortion, collusion, conflicts of interest and money laundering. (10) Non-repayable loans do not have a linear or foreseeable trend; while a significant grant was given in 2018, this did not occur in 2019 as only minor projects were set out. (11) With regard to 2016 data, the total contributions to trade and employer associations is 8,287,592 euros.
324 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI Content Index. 
GRI Standards Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission. 
Part Omitted Reason Explanation. 
GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures. 
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016. 
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization 236 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 8-9 102-3 Location and headquarters 236 102-4 Location of operations 8-9 102-5 Ownership and legal form 8-9; 196; 236; Performance indicators, sec. Sound governance 102-6 Markets served 8-9; Performance indicators, sec. Infrastructures, ecosystems and platforms 102-7 Scale of the organization 8-9; 26; 78; 168-169; Performance indicators, sec. At a Glance, Our people and their value 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Performance indicators, sec. At a Glance, Our people and their value 102-9 Supply chain 156-157; 164 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 156; 244 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 14; 202 102-12 External initiatives 43-44; 212-213; 222 102-13 Membership of associations 43-44; 212-213. 
STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 5 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8-10; 14-18; 20-21; 24-25; 3439; 45-47; 53-55; 74-77; 90-93; 106-107; 124-127; 142- 145; 152-155; 166-167; 172; 190-193; 197-199; 202-208; 222-223. 
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 85-86; 224-225 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 83-84; 224-225. 
GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 12-13; 48-50; 196-199 102-19 Delegating authority 12-13; 48-50; 196-199 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 12-13; 48-50; 196-199 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 194-199 102-55 325 GRI Content Index


GRI Standards Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission. 
Part Omitted Reason Explanation. 
GRI 102: General Disclosure 2016 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 196-199; Performance indicators, sec. Sound governance 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 196-199 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 196-199 102-25 Conflicts of interest 200-201; 222-224 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 12-13; 48-50; 194; 196-199 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 194; 197-199 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 197-206 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 12-15; 48-50; 200-206 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 14-15; 48-50; 200-206 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 12-13; 196-199 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 197-199; 222-224 102-35 Remuneration policies 48-49; 199-200 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 48-49; 199-200. 
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 16-19; 239-241 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Performance indicators, sec. Our people and their value 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 27; 108-111; 115-120; 239-241 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 19; 27; 83-85; 99; 108-111; 115-120; 194; 240; Performance indicators, sec. Infrastructures, ecosystems and platforms, sec. Sound governance 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 16-19; 27; 83-85; 108-111; 115-120; Performance indicators, sec. Infrastructures, ecosystems and platforms. 
REPORTING PRACTICES 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 234; 244-245 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 236-244 102-47 List of material topics 16-19; 236-244 102-48 Restatements of information 236; 246-247 102-49 Changes in reporting 236; 246-247 102-50 Reporting period 236; 246-247 102-51 Date of most recent report 236 102-52 Reporting cycle 236 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 236 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 237 326 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI Standards Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission. 
Part Omitted Reason Explanation. 
GRI 102: General Disclosure 2016 102-55 GRI content index 236; Content Index 102-56 External assurance 245; 249-251. 
Material Topics 200 series (Economic topics)
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 27; 29-32; 203-206 103-2 The management approach and its components 14-15; 24-25; 38-39; 46-47; 5365; 200-208 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 14-15; 24-25; 38-39; 46-47; 5365; 200-208. 
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Performance indicators, sec. At a Glance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 14-15; 24-25; 38-39; 46-47; 5355; 200-208 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Performance indicators, sec. Sound governance. 
PROCUREMENT PRACTICES. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 156-165 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 156-165. 
GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Performance indicators, sec. Sustainable supply chain. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
ANTI-CORRUPTION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 200-208; 222-224 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 200-208; 222-224. 
GRI 205: Anticorruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 222-224 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 222-223; Performance indicators, sec. Sound governance Besides the information on reports concerning the Code of Ethics, no other events are indicated. 
ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 222-224 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 222-224. 
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 29 legal actions have been recorded in 2019 (19 in Italy, 5 in Iberia and 5 in Romania) 327 GRI Content Index


GRI Standards Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission. 
Part Omitted Reason Explanation 300 series (Environmental topics)
MATERIALS. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 170-173 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 170-173. 
GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Performance indicators, sec. Environmental sustainability 301-2 Recycled input materials used Performance indicators, sec. Environmental sustainability. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
ENERGY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 170-173; 177-178 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 170-173; 177-178. 
GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 70-71; 177-178; Performance indicators, sec. Environmental sustainability 302-3 Energy intensity 177-178 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 177-178. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
WATER 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 170-173; 178-180 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 170-173; 178-180. 
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 178-180 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 178-180 303-3 Water withdrawal 72-73; 178-180 Performance indicators, sec. Environmental sustainability. 
BIODIVERSITY. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 170-173; 184-187 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 170-173; 184-187. 
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations 184-187. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
EMISSIONS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 66-67; 170-175 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 66-67; 175; Performance indicators, sec. Environmental sustainability 328 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI Standards Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission. 
Part Omitted Reason Explanation. 
GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 66-67; Performance indicators, sec. Environmental sustainability 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 66-67; Performance indicators, sec. Environmental sustainability 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 66-67; Performance indicators, sec. Environmental sustainability 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 8-9; 66-67; Performance indicators, sec. Environmental sustainability 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions 175-177; Performance indicators, sec. Environmental sustainability. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 170-173; 181-183 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 170-173; 181-183. 
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 181-182; Performance indicators, sec. Environmental sustainability. 
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 170-173; 191 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 170-173; 191. 
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 191; Performance indicators, sec. Environmental sustainability. 
SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 170-173 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 156-165; 170-173. 
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 161 400 series (Social topics)
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
EMPLOYMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 94-96; 103-104 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 94-96; 103-104. 
GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 26; 94; Performance indicators, sec. Our people and their value 329 GRI Content Index


GRI Standards Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission. 
Part Omitted Reason Explanation. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 104-105 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 104-105. 
GRI 402: Labor/ Management Relations 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 104-105. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 144-151 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 144-151. 
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 144-151 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 144-151 403-3 Occupational health services 144-151 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 144-151 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 144-151 403-6 Promotion of worker health 144-151 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 144-151 403-9 Work-related injuries 144-146; Performance indicators, sec. Occupational health and safety. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
TRAINING AND EDUCATION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 26; 97-98 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26; 97-98. 
GRI 404: Training and education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 26; 94; 97-98; Performance indicators, sec. Our people and their value 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 26; 97-98; Performance indicators, sec. Our people and their value. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 99-102; 199-201; 224 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 99-102; 199-201; 224 330 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI Standards Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission. 
Part Omitted Reason Explanation. 
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 8-9; 26; 94; 99-102; 199-201 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 26; 94; 100-101; Performance indicators, sec. Our people and their value. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
NON-DISCRIMINATION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 225-228 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 225-228. 
GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 225; Performance indicators, sec. Sound governance. 
FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 156-163; 227-231 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 156-163; 227-231. 
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 156-163; 227-231. 
CHILD LABOR. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 156-163; 227-231 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 156-163; 227-231. 
GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 156-163; 227-231. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 156-163; 227-231 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 156-163; 227-231. 
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 156-163; 227-231. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
SECURITY PRACTICES 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 230 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 230 331 GRI Content Index


GRI Standards Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission. 
Part Omitted Reason Explanation. 
GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures 230 All Enel people are involved in training about sustainability issues, of which human rights are a fundamental element. All suppliers sign specific clauses concerning human rights and commit to complying with the associated policy. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 27; 108; 227-231 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 27; 108; 227-231. 
GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples. 
No violations of the rights of indigenous peoples have been reported. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 224; 227-231 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 224; 227-231. 
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 227-231 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 231; Performance indicators, sec. Our people and their value. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
LOCAL COMMUNITIES 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 27; 108-111; 115-121; 224; 227-231 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 27; 108-111; 115-121; 224; 227-231. 
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 110-111 100% of thermal power plants in O&M, 96% of renewable plants in O&M. 
Percentage of total Group operations. 
Information not available on all business areas. 
Mapping process in progress. Only the % relative to thermal power plants and renewable plants in O&M phase is currently available 332 Sustainability Report 2019


GRI Standards Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission. 
Part Omitted Reason Explanation. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 156-163; 224 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 156-163; 224. 
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 156-163; 224. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. 
PUBLIC POLICY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 224-227 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 224-227. 
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions. 
Enel does not have direct relations with political parties and does not provide financing of any kind, as explicitly established at point 2.2 of the Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan and at point 3.26 of the Group’s Code of Ethics. Some exceptions can be found in some countries following the local law and subject to analysis by the due bodies. 
CUSTOMER HEALTH & SAFETY. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 144-145; 149 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 144-145; 149. 
GRI 416: Customer Health & Safety 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 149 New products and services are assessed in terms of potential impact on health and safety throughout the value chain, in order to minimize that impact, as confirmed by point 2.2.1 of the Human Rights Policy. 
MARKETING AND LABELING. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 83; 85-86 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83; 85-86 333 GRI Content Index


GRI Standards Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission. 
Part Omitted Reason Explanation. 
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling. 
All the Group sale companies comply with the transparency obligations envisaged by various national and supranational regulations regarding the source of the electricity sold. Energy bills must specify the mix of energy sources used and the source of the energy 417-3 Incidents of noncompliance concerning marketing communications. 
In 2019 there were no cases of non compliance with regulations or voluntary codes relating to the Enel Group marketing activities. 
CUSTOMER PRIVACY. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16-19; 236-239 103-2 The management approach and its components 232 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 232. 
GRI 418: Customer privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 232. 
General standard disclosures for the electric utility sector. 
General standard disclosures for the electric utility sector. 
Page number(s)/URL/Direct answer. 
EU1 8-9; 70-71; 168-169; Performance indicators, sec. At a Glance. 
EU2 8-9; 70-71; 168-169; Performance indicators, sec. At a Glance. 
EU3 8-9; 70; 78; Performance indicators, sec. Infrastructures, ecosystems and platforms, sec. Innovation and digitalization. 
EU4 8-9; 78;168-169; Performance indicators, sec. At a Glance, sec. Infrastructures, ecosystems and platforms, sec. Innovation and digitalization. 
Specific standard disclosures for the electric utility sector. 
Category: economic. 
MATERIAL ASPECT: DEMAND SIDE MANAGEMENT. 
DMA 79-81; 87-89. 
MATERIAL ASPECT: RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT. 
DMA 128-131. 
MATERIAL ASPECT: SYSTEM EFFICIENCY. 
EU11 70; Performance indicators, sec. Infrastructures, ecosystems and platforms. 
EU12 Performance indicators, sec. Infrastructures, ecosystems and platforms. 
Category: social. 
SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK 334 Sustainability Report 2019


General standard disclosures for the electric utility sector. 
Page number(s)/URL/Direct answer. 
MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT. 
DMA 97-98. 
DMA 144-145. 
EU15 Performance indicators, sec. Our people and their value. 
EU18 8-9; Performance indicators, sec. Sustainable supply chain. 
SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY. 
MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES. 
DMA 115-121. 
EU22 115-121. 
MATERIAL ASPECT: DISASTER/EMERGENCY PLANNING AND RESPONSE. 
DMA 150. 
SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY. 
MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY. 
EU25 149; Performance indicators, sec. Communities and value sharing. 
MATERIAL ASPECT: ACCESS. 
DMA 84-85; 111-114. 
EU26. 
Italy: 0% Spain: 0% Argentina: 0% Brazil: 0% Chile: 0% Colombia: 0.21% Peru: 4.8%
EU28 Performance indicators, sec. Infrastructures, ecosystems and platforms. 
EU29 Performance indicators, sec. Infrastructures, ecosystems and platforms. 
EU30 70; Performance indicators, sec. Infrastructures, ecosystems and platforms. 
MATERIAL ASPECT: PROVISION OF INFORMATION. 
DMA 85-86 335 GRI Content Index


336 Sustainability Report 2019


Concept design and realization HNTO - Gruppo HDRÀ
Copy editing postScriptum di Paola Urbani. 
Printing Varigrafica Alto Lazio. 
Print run: 50 copies. 
Published in June 2020. 
INSIDE PAGES. 
Paper. 
Fedrigoni Freelife Cento. 
Weight 120 g/m2. 
Number of pages 336. 
COVER. 
Paper. 
Fedrigoni Freelife Cento. 
Weight 300 g/m2. 
This publication is printed on FSC® certified 100% paper. 
Publication not for sale. 
By Enel Communications. 
Enel. 
Società per azioni. 
Sede legale 00198 Roma. 
Viale Regina Margherita, 137. 
Capitale sociale Euro 10.166.679.946 i.v.
Registro Imprese di Roma, Codice Fiscale 00811720580. 
R.E.A. 756032 Partita IVA 00934061003 © Enel SpA 00198 Roma, Viale Regina Margherita, 137


enel.com. 
Every day sees the generation of new energy, which spreads and grows thanks to a network that connects us all together. We are the source of that energy, which drives social development, safeguards the planet and enables everyone to express their full potential. Curiosity has opened new horizons for us. Courage has enabled us to reach those horizons and create new business models for ourselves, our customers, our shareholders and the community we operate in. Because yesterday’s ideas are today’s realities.