Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 1. 
Table of Contents. 

Message from the President 2. 
The Fujitsu Group's CSR 3. 
FUJITSU Way and Group-wide Dissemination 3-1-1. 
CSR Policy and Promotion Framework 3-2-1. 
CSR Activities in FY 2018: Goals and Results 3-3-1. 
United Nations Global Compact 3-4-1. 
Global Responsible Business 4. 
Socio-Economic ICT Impact 4-1. 
SDG-related Activities in Fujitsu 4-1-1. 
Human Rights, Diversity and Inclusion 4-2. 
Human Rights 4-2-1-1. 
Diversity and Inclusion 4-2-2-1. 
Wellbeing 4-3. 
Performance Evaluation and Compensation / Work Environment 4-3-1-1. 
Health Management 4-3-2-1. 
Human Resource Development and Career Design 4-3-3-1. 
Environment 4-4. 
Environmental Management 4-4-1. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) 4-4-2. 
Environmental Data 4-4-3. 
Compliance 4-5. 
Compliance 4-5-1. 
Supply Chain 4-6. 
Supply Chain 4-6-1. 
Health and Safety 4-7. 
Health and Safety 4-7-1. 
Community 4-8. 
Social Contribution Activities 4-8-1-1. 
Activities that Empower People through. 
Partnerships 4-8-2-1. 
Social Contribution Activities to Develop Science and. 
Technology 4-8-3-1. 
Collaboration with External Parties 4-8-4-1. 
Governance 5. 
Corporate Governance 5 - 1 - 1. 
Risk Management 5 - 2 - 1. 
Information Security 5 - 3 - 1. 
Quality Initiatives 5-4-1-1. 
Working With Our Customers 5-4-2-1. 
Data and Documents 6. 
External Recognition and Awards 6-1-1. 
Social data 6-2-1. 
Fujitsu Group Profile 7-1. 
Financial & Non-Financial Highlights 8-1. 
Sustainability Data Book Framework 9-1. 
Third Party Verification Report 10-1. 
GRI Standards / UNGC principles Comparison Table 11-1 


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 2. 
Message from the President. 
Since the Industrial Revolution, technological advances and the trend toward globalization have led to astounding progress in society. This sudden growth, however, has also triggered global warming and rapid urbanization and created numerous social distortions, such as widening inequality. Turning to the digital society, new technologies like Artificial. 
Intelligence (AI), the Internet of Things (IoT) and 5G are bringing unprecedented convenience to our daily lives and to businesses. On the other hand, new challenges such as privacy, security and reduced employment are emerging.

I am convinced that we must make a contribution to the sustainability of the planet if Fujitsu is to continue growing on a worldwide basis. To ensure a prosperous future for Fujitsu and global society, the fundamental approach to sustainability-oriented management must be to radically change the way enterprises consider their impact on the economy, society at large and the business world.

To date, Fujitsu has employed information and communications technologies (ICT) and worked hand-in-hand with customers to deliver value in myriad ways. Fujitsu itself is now transitioning from an ICT company into a Digital Transformation (DX) enterprise. We will then be ideally positioned to support the long-term growth of our customers and society by applying digital technologies to create innovations that will help resolve a host of issues.

The essential philosophy is to contribute to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Looking toward 2030, the. 
SDGs represent an important initiative for the sustainable development of human society, and Fujitsu is also positioning the goals at the center of its management approach. This global framework – built on our business activities, which are underpinned by the. 
FUJITSU Way corporate philosophy – is nothing less than a reflection of the trust and creativity we have cultivated over many years with our customers and the fulfillment of our ongoing responsibilities as a global enterprise.

One step on this path is the integration of our Global Responsible Business (GRB) management structure to unify the sustainability activities and policies of the various Fujitsu Group regions around the world. Fujitsu will now work with a single focus to tackle a range of challenges, including non-financial issues such as reducing environmental impacts, promoting respect for human rights and the cause of diversity & inclusion, and boosting the deployment of responsible delivery systems. We will specify key performance indicators (KPIs) for each GRB category and will share with stakeholders our plans for achieving these KPIs.

A decade ago, Fujitsu announced its support of the United Nations Global Compact, which consists of 10 principles in four areas: human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. I am committed to further reinforcing our corporate culture of zero tolerance, which does not tolerate any wrongdoing, as we make every effort to minimize negative impacts on people and on society as a whole.
Representative Director and President Takahito Tokita. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 3. 

 

The Fujitsu Group's CSR. 
Our vision and the policy for achieving a sustainable society.
 


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 3-1-1. 
FUJITSU Way and Group-wide Dissemination ⇩ The Fujitsu Group Philosophy ⇩ Fujitsu’s Framework for Dissemination Activities and Progress ⇩ FY 2018 Performance. 
The Fujitsu Group Philosophy “FUJITSU Way” 
The Fujitsu Way facilitates management innovation and promotes a unified direction for the Fujitsu Group as we expand our global business activities, bringing innovative technology and solutions to every corner of the globe.
The Fujitsu Way provides a common direction for all employees of the Fujitsu Group. By adhering to its principles and values to their daily activities, the employees enhance corporate value and their contributions to global and local societies.
Since Fujitsu began its life in 1935, the ideas and spirit of successive leaders who paved the way for our progress have been condensed and codified in the Fujitsu Way.
For the Fujitsu Group, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) means contributing to a sustainable, networked society by working with our customers to resolve a variety of social issues through the practice of the Fujitsu Way.

Fujitsu’s Framework for Dissemination Activities and Progress. 
Each company president or business unit head nominates Fujitsu Way leaders, who disseminate the Fujitsu Way to its all employees.
Cooperating with their respective presidents and business unit heads, the Fujitsu Way leaders plan appropriate activities in alignment with their business strategies. Through dialogs on the Fujitsu Way, the Fujitsu Way leaders help their colleagues to understand the relation between their daily work and the Fujitsu Way.
As of March 2019, approximately 270 Fujitsu Way leaders are working to disseminate the Fujitsu Way message in organizations across the Fujitsu Group, including subsidiaries in Japan and abroad. By surveying the condition of activities at home and overseas once a year, the leaders also share information with each other on their progress in their respective organizations on a regular basis.

FUJITSU Way. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 3-1-2. 

Fujitsu Way New Employee Training. 
In April 2018, Fujitsu held a Fujitsu Way training program for approximately 950 new employees. At Fujitsu Group companies in. 
Japan, Fujitsu Way cards and booklets were distributed at events such as company entrance ceremonies. Furthermore, each Fujitsu. 
Group company added its own appropriate training program. The 163 mid-career recruits completed the Fujitsu Way training program as well, in a total of 11 different sessions.

Promoting Group-wide Dissemination. 
The cards and booklets explaining the Fujitsu Way are distributed to all employees around the world, and posters are distributed to offices. An e-Learning course on the Fujitsu Way is always available translated in 16 languages. Also, Fujitsu Way cards data are distributed. So that each business unit head can add his or her message to the Fujitsu Way. Many business units actively utilize the data and post on internal portal website.
On our corporate intranet, we distribute a video message of. 
President Tanaka talking about the Fujitsu Way based on his own personal experiences. Currently, the message is available in 18 languages including Japanese.
Through these efforts to share the Fujitsu Way, the Fujitsu Group tries to spread the core concepts and make all employees understand the mission of Fujitsu and how they can contribute to shape tomorrow.

President Tanaka talking about the Fujitsu Way. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 3-1-3. 
Fujitsu Way Leader Training. 
We held a Fujitsu Way training program for the approximately 40. 
Fujitsu Way leaders that were appointed this year, divided across three instances. These were held in our in-house training centers and historic exhibitions of Fujitsu. Training participants gained a fuller understanding of the concepts at the foundation of the Fujitsu. 
Way, and learned their roles as leaders. During the training, participants also discussed the issues in their own workplaces by each group while referencing past case studies and exchanged action plans for revitalizing organization based on Fujitsu Way.

Fujitsu Way Workshops. 
In FY 2018, the Fujitsu Way Office visited three group companies inside and outside Japan upon request in order to support initiatives for reforming the corporate culture. Analyzing the results of employee satisfaction surveys and preliminary questionnaires, the workshop participants tried to find key issues and make a step forward to solve them based on the Fujitsu Way.

FY 2018 Performance 
 Fujitsu Way Employee Training  New employees: Conducted collective training for approximately 950 new employees  Mid-career recruits: Conducted training for 163 mid-career recruits, across 11 instances  All employees: e-Learning program  Fujitsu Way Leaders Training: 3 times  Fujitsu Way Workshops: 3 companies. 
Fujitsu Way Leader training session. 
Workshops at group companies inside and outside Japan. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 3-2-1. 
CSR Policy and Promotion Framework ⇩ CSR Policy ⇩ Global Integration of Priority Issues ⇩ Organizational Structure and Regular Reviews ⇩ Implementing CSR Activities Utilizing ISO 26000 ⇩ Development of CSR Surveys based on ISO 26000. 
CSR Policy. 
The Fujitsu Group is committed to being a truly global ICT corporation that remains keenly responsive to the needs and expectations of all its stakeholders*1 while making a significant contribution to development that is sustainable for both society and the planet. With this in mind, in December 2010 the Fujitsu Group established a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy and determined five priority issues around which to focus its CSR practices. We also set medium-term targets, to be achieved in FY2020, for these priority issues. As we promote CSR activities that are an integral part of our business, we will continue to disclose and share the results of our progress toward those targets both inside and outside the company.
 

CSR Policy. 
CSR in the Fujitsu Group is practiced by implementing the FUJITSU Way. In all its business activities, by implementing the FUJITSU Way in light of the expectations and needs of multiple stakeholders, the Fujitsu Group contributes to the sustainable development of society and the planet. In practicing CSR, we demonstrate a commitment to responsible business operations as a global ICT company by specifying priority issues and working to address them.
 
*1 The Fujitsu Group's Stakeholders: The Fujitsu Group regards its customers, employees, business partners, shareholders and investors, and global and local communities as its stakeholders. Government authorities, NPOs, NGOs, and similar organizations are also particularly important stakeholders within these global and local communities.
Global Integration of Priority Issues. 
In 2010, the Fujitsu Group established a Basic Strategy Working Group within the CSR Promotion Committee. Interviews were conducted with external experts regarding the expectations and demands on Fujitsu, based on an awareness of international CSR standards and global social issues. The working group then determined five priority issues within the CSR Policy and we have since been engaged in activities focused on those priority issues.
With the advent of developments such as the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the UN and the issuing of the COP21 Paris Agreement, in recent years we have seen escalating demands for even greater efforts to build sustainable communities on a global scale. As a result, to increase the effectiveness of its global CSR initiatives in contributing to sustainable development, the Fujitsu Group employed materiality analysis in a group-wide review of the priority issues. The result is a unified framework for the priority issues under the banner of Global Responsible Business (GRB).
Isamu Yamamori. 
Corporate Executive Officer and Executive Vice President. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 3-2-2. 
Global Responsible Business. 
Extensive research was also conducted into the creation of a globally unified structure for promoting and managing activities.
Long-term goals have been specified for each priority issue, with the end of FY2030 set as the final achievement deadline.
Consideration is also being given to assigning short-term goals as required. The GRB framework will be used to check on progress toward these goals on a global basis and to drive improvements in the activities being undertaken for each priority issue.
Organizational Structure and Regular Reviews. 
The Fujitsu Group has established a committee, under the chairmanship of the President, to provide governance and ensure that the group’s sustainability activities are promoted and embedded globally in the corporate culture. At the semi-annual meetings of the committee, the executives in charge of activities right across the business units, including the respective department and overseas region heads, discuss and approve activity policies and measures relating to sustainability. They also offer guidance and advice on improvements to help achieve even more beneficial outcomes.
In the course of driving GRB, the staff at Fujitsu head office and in the overseas regions who are responsible for each of the priority issues will undertake the day-to-day handling of activities designed to achieve the goals for the priority issues. Regular reporting meetings, attended by the head office and overseas region representatives, will be held to share information and check on the overall progress of GRB.
Semi-annual meetings will be attended by the executives responsible for the priority issues, with the outcomes to be reported to the Vice President responsible for the execution of GRB and to the executives in the Global Corporate Unit.
Implementing CSR Activities Based on ISO 26000. 
In order to drive CSR activities that are an integral part of our business, since FY2012 the Fujitsu Group, along with the major departments listed below, have conducted CSR surveys within the group companies in Japan and overseas, based on ISO 26000, the international standard for social responsibility.
The purpose of these surveys is to instill the two values of risk mitigation and value creation on a group-wide basis. First, in terms of risk mitigation, we will establish prevention and correction processes (due diligence) to minimize the effects of latent human rights and labor practice risks, including in our supply chain, which may negatively impact our corporate value. And, in terms of value creation, we will undertake activities that optimally leverage group resources to contribute to solving issues facing global and local communities and that are conducive to value creation across the entire group.

Socio-economic ICT Impact Use ICT to help solve social challenges, starting with the SDGs.
Human Rights, Diversity & Inclusion Pursue the goals of human rights and global diversity in the AI era.
Wellbeing Provide opportunities for employees to grow as individuals and fully develop their capabilities.
Environment. 
Work to achieve zero emissions of the CO2 from our own operation by. 
FY2050, and contribute to climate change adaptation and a de- carbonized society.
Compliance Maintain a high level of awareness of corporate ethics and act fairly in all business activities.
Supply Chain Accomplishing a responsible procurement in the supply chain.
Health and Safety Provide a safe and healthy working environment.
Communities Engage in activities that contribute to society and build prosperous, optimistic communities.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 3-2-3. 
Structure of the ISO 26000 Promotion Project *2 Department names as at the time the survey was conducted. 
As part of our continuous improvement process, we will review and enhance the content of our survey in a format that combines. 
GRB and ISO 26000. This will allow us to more clearly identify CSR issues within the Fujitsu Group.
CSR Surveys based on ISO 26000. 
In FY2018, the Fujitsu Group conducted its 6th CSR (ISO 26000)/Governance Survey at 89 key affiliated companies both in Japan and overseas (63 in Japan and 26 overseas). Following discussions in the preparatory stages of the survey with the major departments mentioned above, the survey was conducted with the same question content as in the previous year, to make it possible to identify progressive changes from the previous year. We provide feedback to each of the affiliated companies about the survey findings and are also working to enhance CSR activities that are synchronized with the individual measures of each of the major departments.

Overview of Progressive Changes for the Overall Fujitsu Group. 
ISO 26000 Core Subjects Responsible Departments*2. 
Organizational Governance FUJITSU Way Office, Responsible Business Unit, Corporate Affairs and Risk. 
Management Unit. 
Human Rights Diversity Promotion Office. 
Labor Practices Global Human Resources Unit. 
Environment Responsible Business Unit. 
Fair Operating Practices Legal, Compliance & IP Unit, Corporate Purchasing Unit. 
Consumer Issues Marketing Strategy Unit, Corporate Affairs and Risk Management Unit,
Corporate Quality Management Unit. 
Community Involvement and Development Corporate Affairs and Risk Management Unit. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 3-2-4. 
Overview of Survey Results by Topic (the examples below cover Human Rights and Labor Practices) 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 3-3-1. 
CSR Activities in FY 2018: Goals and Results 
⇩ Basic CSR Management ⇩ Priority 1 ⇩ Priority 2 ⇩ Priority 3 ⇩ Priority 4 ⇩ Priority 5. 
Basic CSR Management. 
FY 2018 Targets FY 2018 Performance. 
Achievement. 
Level （*1）
Promoting. 
Group-wide CSR activities  Set global goals and formulate an action plan based on our new CSR policy.
 Establish global CSR management with a promotion framework befitting of a responsible business.
 Revised our important CSR objectives, and formulated new globally-shared goals and an action plan for CSR activities called. 
Global Responsible Business (GRB).
 Office headquarters and the regions worked together to discuss and decide on GRB, which has become established as a system for managing and promoting activities.
✔✔
Implementing the. 
PDCA cycle based on our vision  Make the integrated report more extensive.
 Improve and execute internal processes based on international norms and industry standards.
 Announced the Fujitsu Group AI. 
Commitment as an initiative on artificial intelligence (AI) and ethics.
 Revised internal rules based on the RBA Code of Conduct.
✔✔
Instilling CSR internally  Grow a CSR community within the. 
Group, including global sites.
 Spread information even more extensively through use of intranet websites.
 Continue increasing the use of methods such as seminars to instill. 
CSR.
 Built an internal global community for each important CSR objective, and engaged in activities internally.
 Held internal seminars to boost internal understanding of efforts toward the SDGs.
 Increased website content about the relationship between efforts toward SDGs and the business that. 
Fujitsu does.
✔✔ 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 3-3-2. 
Priority 1: Provide Opportunity and Peace of Mind through ICT. 
FY 2018 Targets FY 2018 Performance. 
Achievement. 
Level （*1）
Providing new value through ICT  Increase efforts to solve social problems in Japan and worldwide, with sights set on achieving the. 
SDGs.
 Increase more case examples of solutions for core fields in Japan and worldwide.
 In addition to operating a plant factory, Fujitsu itself practices smart agriculture together with partners from various industries.
With a network that connects 7,000 hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, and pharmacies in Japan, we support the health and well- being of individuals while also providing cutting-edge technologies such as HPC and AI and engaging in co-creation with various academic research institutions in the fields of genetic treatments and pharmaceuticals.
We also serve as partners for smartphone manufacturing in. 
China and Singapore, and for creating digital innovation in. 
France, offering solutions that leverage ICT to solve urban and educational issues in a variety of ways around the world.
 Engaged in more solutions projects related to our core fields in Japan and around the world.
✔✔
Increase access to ICT  Handle greater numbers of business cases that incorporate universal design.
 Take on greater numbers of problem solving-type projects in emerging nations.
 We create new businesses and services that enrich people’s lives and society, such as Universal. 
Disaster Prevention Solutions that provide consistent support from disaster response centers to residents; customer engagement solution CHORDSHIP, which enables a greater number of users to interact naturally with ICT systems by voice; and the. 
Hajimete no Jibun Computer (Lifebook LH Series) laptop computer.
 We are working with the Sizwe. 
Africa IT Group to provide Edu-
Smart Green Center self-sufficient classrooms in South Africa.
✔✔
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 3-3-3. 
FY 2018 Targets FY 2018 Performance. 
Achievement. 
Level （*1）
Similarly, we are taking on even greater numbers of projects in countries throughout Southeast. 
Asia and the Middle East for business and field trials in the areas of disaster response and addressing traffic problems.
Ensuring reliability and peace of mind through ICT  Maintain thorough security training.
 Deepen affiliations with government agencies and international organizations.
 Further expand solutions based on internal practices.
 We have maintained our security training for Fujitsu employees including executives.
(participation rate 99 %)  Masami Yamamoto of Fujitsu was appointed Vice Chair of the World. 
Business Council for Sustainable. 
Development (WBCSD) in January 2018, and Fujitsu is active as a board company for the Social. 
Impact Sector Sustainable Cities. 
Leadership Project. Fujitsu has also joined WIPO GREEN （*2）, a marketplace for connecting environmental technology and service providers which is operated by the World Intellectual Property. 
Organization (WIPO), a specialized agency of the United Nations.
Having joined WIPO GREEN as a partner, Fujitsu has already registered upwards of 400 intellectual property assets to the database.
 We are providing services focused on communication platforms that transform work styles based on internal practices developed within the Fujitsu Group, including at overseas group companies.
✔✔
Priority 2: Protecting the Global Environment. 
FY 2018 Targets（*3） FY 2018 Performance. 
Achievement. 
Level （*1）
Our Society  Contribute to sustainable development of society through provision of ICT services.
 We have selected 25 solutions that contribute to a sustainable society, 18 of which have been disclosed to ✔✔
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 3-3-4. 
FY 2018 Targets（*3） FY 2018 Performance. 
Achievement. 
Level （*1）  Achieve top-level energy efficiency of more than 50% of the newly developed products.
the public.
 67.9% of our new products have achieved the top level of energy efficiency.
Our Business  Reduce greenhouse gas emission over 5% compared to FY 2013 by the end of FY 2018.
 Reduce CO2 emissions per sales from transport over 2% each year.
 Increase usage of renewable energy to at least 6% of total usage by the end of FY 2018.
 Reduced emissions by 30.3 % compared to FY 2013  Reduced 6.2 ％ year-on-year  Usage rate will be opened in mid-
July.
✔✔ 
Priority 3: Accepting Diversity. 
FY 2018 Targets FY 2018 Performance. 
Achievement. 
Level （*1）
Reform our organizational culture  Make further advances in training and awareness at Fujitsu and domestic group companies, starting with the Human Rights. 
Promotion Committee.
 Disseminate the Fujitsu Group. 
Human Rights Statement, and work to establish a company culture of respect for human rights throughout the Fujitsu Group including global group companies.
 Provide stronger support for promoting diversity to generate innovation.
 Spread promotion activities to group companies in Japan and worldwide.
 Bolster organization-wide efforts aiming to foster an innovative organizational culture.
 We held human rights awareness training sessions in each area in addition to training when employees are promoted.
Organized a “Human Rights Week” event (gathered suggestions for a human rights slogan and gave awards, distributed leaflets to all employees, hung posters) as a company-wide activity.
 Held workshops with LGBT experts as guest speakers for employees on a voluntary attendance basis, and for promotion division and consultation desk personnel, with the aim of creating good work environments for everyone.
Separate training activities by rank to promote understanding continued.
 Rolled out “Barrier-Free Minds” training company-wide to foster organizational culture in which anyone can succeed regardless of impairments.
 Continuing from the announcement the Fujitsu Group. 
Human Rights Statement (in 21 ✔✔
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 3-3-5. 
FY 2018 Targets FY 2018 Performance. 
Achievement. 
Level （*1） languages) in line with international human rights standards, e-learning has been conducted to instill understanding throughout the Fujitsu Group, including globally.
 Various diversity promotion activities at individual workplaces have been supported.
 Diversity and inclusion policies for the Fujitsu Group have been disseminated.
 We have defined indexes for “Innovative company culture” including “providing opportunities to do work that is both challenging and fascinating,” and are engaged in activities efforts within each organization.
Supporting the career development of individuals  Bolster efforts in managing talent continuously starting with younger employees in order to produce more female managers.
 Working on measures at each rank to support women’s career development.
 Implementing an expanded Female. 
Leadership. 
Development Program.
(78 participants)  Holding new career workshops for female employees with the goal of medium- to long-term development of female employees.
(48 participants)  Conducted Career. 
Development Seminars.
(twice)  Events have been held to support the career development of employees with impairments, and those who are caregiving or raising children, held separately for each different attribute. (for domestic group companies also)  Management seminars were held for supervisors who are raising children. (for domestic group ✔✔
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 3-3-6. 
FY 2018 Targets FY 2018 Performance. 
Achievement. 
Level （*1） companies also)  Fujitsu:  Ratio of female managers: 6.1％  Ratio of employees with impairments: 2.28％
Promoting work-life balance  Bolster measures to support each individual employee in reforming their work styles.
 Usage results for systems within. 
Fujitsu:  Childcare leave taken: 442 employees  Child-birth/child-care support leave taken: 585 employees  As part of Telework. 
Day/Telework Month, seminars were held to encourage use of these systems.
✔✔ 
Priority 4: Developing Human Resources that Contribute to the Planet and Society. 
FY 2018 Targets FY 2018 Performance. 
Achievement. 
Level （*1）
Develop the human resources to support a truly global ICT company  Conduct training programs as part of the systems for programs to develop next-generation business leaders.
 Two new tracks were established to further accelerate the development of next-generation business leaders. Each training program was executed according to plan. (317 participants) * Number for long-term training includes those who are currently enrolled in the training.
✔✔
Priority 5: Dialogue and Cooperation with Stakeholders. 
FY 2018 Targets FY 2018 Performance. 
Achievement. 
Level （*1）
Communicating with stakeholders  Organize the global communication of CSR information, and come up with a  Communicated about Fujitsu CSR activities through seminars and participation at events in Japan ✔✔
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 3-3-7. 
FY 2018 Targets FY 2018 Performance. 
Achievement. 
Level （*1） vision.
 Regularly engage with residents and companies in communities to help develop neighborhoods and worldwide.
 Discussed mechanisms for sharing information at group companies in. 
Japan and worldwide.
 Practiced regular engagement with residents and companies in communities to help develop neighborhoods. (107 times)
Collaborating with stakeholders  Build relationships through our main business activities with diverse stakeholders including local governments, NGOs, and international agencies, and bolster specific efforts to help achieve the sustainable development goals (SDGs) advocated by the UN.
 The following activities were implemented to work together with stakeholders toward achieving the SDGs.
 Invited top corporate executives and academic experts to exchange opinions at the 49th World. 
Economic Forum. 
Annual Meeting (known as “Davos”).
 External experts were invited for an SDGs conference held at. 
Fujitsu Forum 2018.
 Information sessions and lectures about. 
SDGs-related initiatives were held for customers, NGOs, employees, and other stakeholders. (33 times) ✔✔
Coexisting with society  Work to horizontally expand and enliven social contribution activities throughout the Group as a whole through encouragement and announcements.
 Maintain the following efforts for social contribution programs.
 Building up an internal database for social contribution activities and make it more accurate.
 Work on measures to encourage more volunteer activities.
 Horizontally expanding and enlivening social contribution activities throughout the Group as a whole through encouragement and announcements.
 Maintain the following efforts for social contribution programs.
 Building up an internal database for social contribution activities and make it more accurate. Number of activities registered in. 
FY 2018: 612  Working on measures ✔✔
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 3-3-8. 
FY 2018 Targets FY 2018 Performance. 
Achievement. 
Level （*1） to encourage more volunteer activities.
 1. ✔✔： Achieved original plan, ✔：Some of original plan is not yet achieved as some issues remain, ✕：Original plan has not been achieved 2. WIPO GREEN: A platform and global network to spread environmental technologies and promote innovation by connecting providers of environment-related technologies and services with those seeking innovative solutions. The WIPO GREEN network includes at least 6,000 individuals and organizations, from 170 countries around the world.
3. All items from the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) :https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/environment/approach/plan/ 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 3-4-1. 
United Nations Global Compact. 
Fujitsu announced its support of the United Nations Global Compact in December 2009. The Fujitsu Group is committed to global. 
CSR activities that uphold the 10 principles of the Global Compact. Through this commitment, we will meet the demands of various stakeholders in international society, and uphold responsible management as a true global ICT company contributing to the creation of a sustainable society.
What is the Global Compact? 

＜The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact＞ 
The UN Global Compact consists of 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption with which companies should rigorously comply.

Human Rights. 
Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and. 
Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.

Labor. 
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor;
Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and. 
Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.

Environment. 
Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and. 
Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.

Anti-Corruption. 
Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
 

Please refer to the GRI Standards / United Nations Global Compact Principles Comparison Table which shows the relationship between the United Nations Global Compact and CSR activities we conducted in FY 2018, contained in the Fujitsu Group. 
Sustainability Data book 2019.
https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/guideline 
* We have been reporting our COP (Communication on Progress) at the Advanced Level since FY 2012.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4. 

 

Global Responsible Business. 
Given the requirement to enhance the sustainability-focused corporate management, fulfilling corporate social responsibility from a global perspective has become a more important issue. The Fujitsu Group promotes its CSR activities based on the CSR Policy. In order to strive its global effectiveness, we have reviewed material issues across the Group based on materiality analysis, and have established a framework called the "Global Responsible Business" by classifying issues into the following eight areas.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-1. 

 

 

 
Global Responsible Business - Socio-Economic ICT Impact - 

Our goal is to realize a trusted Human Centric Intelligent Society.
The Fujitsu Group will create social value and contribute to the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals and, in doing so, enhance our reputation as a globally trusted organization.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-1-1. 
Goal. 
Long-term Goal to be achieved by FY2030. 
Our goal is to realize a trusted Human Centric Intelligent Society.
The Fujitsu Group will create social value and contribute to the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals and, in doing so, enhance our reputation as a globally trusted organization.

SDG-related Activities in Fujitsu 

 

 

 ⇩ SDG-related Activities ⇩Promotion Systems ⇩ Specific Activities. 
SDG-related Activities in Fujitsu. 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in 2015 are a set of common goals to be achieved worldwide, including by developed countries, by 2030. Achieving these goals places considerable demand on private-sector enterprises to play an active and useful role through their technology and capacity for innovation.
The Fujitsu Group has worked for many years to utilize technology and create new innovations with the aim of achieving a “human centric intelligent society”. That is, a society which uses co-creation to generate outcomes that have a lasting impact on the community. These activities are recognized as being aligned with efforts by the international community toward achieving the. 
SDGs.
In this sense, the SDGs are one element in an ecosystem aimed at achieving the Fujitsu growth strategy of “connected services”, pointing the way to new business opportunities through ventures that work to resolve social issues. The Fujitsu Group views the. 
SDGs as a global common language and undertakes SDG-related activities as an opportunity for wide-ranging collaboration with other organizations, including international agencies and governments, private companies and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). By embracing a multifaceted approach through cooperation with many partners, we can create and maximize social value on an even larger scale.
Adopting an approach that overlays the role Fujitsu must play onto common international social goals therefore allows us to flexibly transform our management and business in ways that are not bound by existing approaches and methodologies. Through this process, we will re-examine ourselves in light of society’s expectations and demands and will actively use the SDGs as a tool in our management strategy for achieving sustainable growth.
As a first step, we are focusing on the six areas shown below as the fields in which we can deliver the greatest value by deploying the digital technologies at the core of the Fujitsu Group’s operations.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-1-2. 
Promotion Systems. 
Because the creation of value on a larger scale by addressing the SDGs is inextricably tied to innovating its own business, Fujitsu is promoting a company-wide project that cuts across all levels. This is focused on staff members and includes executives in the. 
Corporate, Sales and Business divisions, but also involves related divisions such as Fujitsu Laboratories and the Fujitsu Research. 
Institute. The perspectives of the various divisions differ, with the Corporate Division focused primarily on sustainability and social responsibility, the Sales Division on business development, and the Business Division on solutions. However, they all collaborate in the verification and promotion of businesses that have a focus on solving social challenges, thereby forging ties in a new way through the co-creation of both social and economic value.
 

 

 

 

 

 
Overview of promotion systems. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-1-3. 
Specific Activities. 
Support for Sustainable Fisheries. 
While the aquaculture and fishing industries in Indonesia are seen as promoting the development of fishing communities and creating employment opportunities, there are also issues related to human resource development and setting up production technology aimed at maintaining a sustainable level of marine resources.
At Fujitsu, we have been participating in the SATREPS joint research project*1, working primarily with Future University Hakodate on ways to apply information and communications technology (ICT) to achieve sustainable fisheries. As part of this initiative, Fujitsu is using its Fisdom internet-based digital learning platform to assist with the training of aquaculture farmers. The project researchers have become teachers and are leveraging Fisdom to deliver video lectures on aquaculture technologies and on the use of specialized equipment. Fisdom is deployed as a tool that allows the aquaculture farmers scattered across Indonesia’s island archipelago to acquire the specialist knowledge that is essential to their success.
Through its ICT expertise and support, Fujitsu is contributing to sustainable development by supporting human resource development in aquaculture and helping to ensure a stable supply of marine resources.
 *1 The Science and Technology Research Partnership for Sustainable Development (SATREPS) is a joint research project structured as a collaboration between the Japan Science and Technology Agency (JST) and the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Participating organizations: Future University Hakodate, Tokyo University of Agriculture, National Institute of Technology - Hachinohe College, Toyohashi University of Technology, Upside LLC, New Media Development Association, Fujitsu Limited “Kanagawa SDGs Partner” Certification. 
The Kanagawa SDGs Partner scheme, operated by Kanagawa Prefecture, is a system that registers companies engaged in businesses that assist in the promotion of the SDGs. As well as publicizing the activities of registered companies, the Prefecture collaborates with the companies in activities to raise public awareness of the SDGs. In this way, the system aims to broaden the impact of SDG initiatives by companies operating in Kanagawa. (Note: Kanagawa Prefecture borders Tokyo and includes the major cities of Yokohama and Kawasaki.)
At Fujitsu, we are working to strengthen our collaboration with Kanagawa Prefecture and with the various registered companies as we promote the adoption of the SDGs in Kanagawa, while also making efforts to raise the profile of the SDGs both in Japan and elsewhere in the world.
Online e-learning platform seminar in Indonesia. 
Certification registration ceremony. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-1-4. 
Participation in WIPO GREEN. 
Fujitsu aims to contribute to global environmental conservation by making its environment-related technologies more broadly available throughout society. As part of this effort, we have been participating since September 2017 as a partner in the WIPO. 
GREEN framework run by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), a specialized agency of the United Nations. This framework acts as a network for the matching and exchange of environmental technologies and services.
More than 400 items of Fujitsu intellectual property are already registered in the WIPO GREEN database and we are in the process of granting technology licenses.
 

 

 

 

 

 
Fujitsu environmental technologies registered in the WIPO GREEN database include one that highlights regional characteristics and another that identifies species and predicts habitation suitability. In September 2018, we concluded IP licensing agreements for these two technologies with Kyushu University and the University of the Ryukyus.
In the future, Fujitsu will contribute further to the attainment of the SDGs by continuing to promote the principle of open innovation through the dissemination of its environmental technologies and via technology transfers.
Collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme and Tohoku University. 
In March 2017, Fujitsu entered into a partnership to build and operate a global database at the Global Centre for Disaster. 
Statistics (GCDS), established by Tohoku University’s International Research Institute of Disaster Science and the United Nations. 
Development Programme (UNDP).
Fujitsu offers its design and build services free of charge relating to the Global Database (GDB), which serves as a platform for storing disaster statistics, and also provides donations that support the utilization of the GDB. In FY2018, we built a prototype in. 
Indonesia and, alongside government agencies and other global companies, took part in events such as workshops hosted by the UNDP where we shared information on the role that ICT companies can play in disaster management.
Through activities such as these, Fujitsu is helping to enhance the disaster management capabilities of developing countries and to build communities that are better prepared for large-scale natural disasters.
 
Participation in WIPO GREEN. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-1-5. 

 

 

 

 

 
Case Studies of Contributions to the SDGs. 
In FY2018, Fujitsu began a series of initiatives aimed at helping its employees understand the links between the SDGs and the various services and solutions offered by Fujitsu. This encourages staff to incorporate an awareness of the SDGs into their work and into the proposals and solutions they develop.
As the SDGs become more widely adopted in society, we have been developing a system of selling points for our services and solutions. Drawing on the “SDG Compass”*2 and “Measuring Socio-Economic Impact: A guide for business”*3 , which provide SDG guidelines for corporate activities, we are replacing descriptions of our business activities with economic, environmental and social impacts and expressing them as links in the results chain.
We have summarized the outcomes of some of these activities in the form of case studies that contribute to the SDGs.
  Please see our home page for details.
https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/sdgs 
*2 SDG Compass: Created jointly by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the United Nations Global Compact and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). https://sdgcompass.org/ 
*3 Measuring Socio-Economic Impact: A guide for business: Drafted by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBSCD). https://www.wbcsd.org/Programs/Redefining-Value/External-Disclosure/Reporting-matters/Resources/Measuring-SocioEconomic-Impact-A-guide-for-business. 
Entities helping to build a global database of disaster statistics. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-2. 

 

 

 
Global Responsible Business - Human Rights, Diversity and Inclusion - 

Based on the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct, the Fujitsu Group will ensure to underlay the spirit of "Respect for human rights" for all our corporate and individual activities, and we will strive to have 130,000 Group employees around the world accept diverse human resources and embrace individuality without bias toward nationality, gender, age differences, or disabilities.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-2-1-1. 
Goal. 
Long-term Goal to be achieved by FY2030. 
In alignment with the UN Guiding Principles for Human Rights and Fujitsu Group's Human Rights statement, Fujitsu will respect all aspects of Human Rights; for our employees, our supply chain and for our customers, partners and society as a whole. Based on this understanding, Fujitsu Group will operate an effective Human Rights Due Diligence across all of our activities.
Human Rights 

 

 
⇩ Our Approach ⇩ Organizational Structure and Regular Reviews ⇩ Activities to Raise Awareness of Human Rights ⇩ Education on Human Rights ⇩ Framework for Feedback on Efforts to Promote Respect for Human Rights ⇩ Initiatives to Prevent Forced Labor and Child Labor ⇩ Achievements in FY2018. 
Our Approach. 
The shared values articulated in the Code of Conduct of the FUJITSU Way are guidelines for each employee to follow when conducting their daily business operations. Prime among them is "We respect human rights", a principle that underpins all our corporate activities. We are working to ensure that this concept becomes an integral part of the day-to-day actions of all employees in the group.
In December 2014, the Fujitsu Group released the “Fujitsu Group Human Rights Statement” to promote activities that respect human rights in accordance with this Code of Conduct, as set out in the FUJITSU Way. The statement has been prepared in 21 languages, including Japanese and English, with the aim of ensuring that it becomes embedded in the corporate culture of all our group companies. Fujitsu has also set out the “FUJITSU Guiding Principles of Respect for Human Rights in Employment” to ensure that respect for human rights in regard to employment becomes firmly entrenched.
Fujitsu has publicly announced its support for the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact（*1）based on universal principles regarding human rights and rights at work, such as the “Universal Declaration of Human Rights” and the International. 
Labor Organization’s (ILO) “Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work”. We will continue to drive management practices that respect human rights.
 *1 Ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact: The compact identifies ten principles in the four areas of human rights, labor practices, the environment, and anti-corruption, which corporations should uphold.
  Fujitsu Group Human Rights Statement https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/humanrights/fujitsu-group-human-rights-statement_en.pdf  FUJITSU Guiding Principles of Respect for Human Rights in Employment https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/humanrights/fujitsu-group-principles-of-respect-for-human-rights-in- employment_en.pdf. 
In March 2019, the Fujitsu Group announced the “Fujitsu Group AI Commitment” as an initiative in the areas of Artificial. 
Intelligence (AI) and ethics. This commitment is a set of guidelines that the Fujitsu Group will adhere to as a corporate entity engaged in businesses relating to the research and development, supply, and operation of AI-related technologies. The Fujitsu. 
Group aims to create further value for customers and society through the safe and secure use of AI, as the deployment of this rapidly advancing technology becomes increasingly widespread.
  Fujitsu Group AI Commitment https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/humanrights/fujitsu-group-ai-commitment-201903_en.pdf. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-2-1-2. 
Organizational Structure and Regular Reviews. 
In accordance with the "Fujitsu Group Human Rights Statement" referred to above, the Fujitsu Group is engaged in building a. 
Human Rights Due Diligence Scheme that identifies the human rights impacts of our business activities throughout the entire global value chain, while also preventing and mitigating any negative impacts.
As part of this activity, we interviewed personnel across a wide range of departments in Fujitsu and exchanged ideas with Japan- based as well as international experts. In doing so, we identified three key areas where our business activities have a major impact; supply chain, employees, and customers and end users. We are now engaged in activities to address human rights issues in these areas.
In order to further drive Human Rights Due Diligence, within the Human Rights and Diversity pillar of our global responsible business activities, we have established a structure of regular meetings for those responsible for promoting human rights in each of Fujitsu’s operating regions. We will monitor the progress being made toward achieving our goals and KPIs in this area and continue to exchange ideas on Human Rights Due Diligence.
Activities to Raise Awareness of Human Rights. 
The Fujitsu Group has established a Human Rights Promotion Committee which is chaired by the board member in charge of human resources. In addition, in 24 Fujitsu work locations within Japan we have set up Regional Human Rights Promotion Committees comprising regional workplace representatives. These bodies implement activities that promote respect for human rights. We have also created similar committees in approximately 80 group companies within Japan.
The head office of the Human Rights Promotion Committee regularly checks on the status of activities and issues with the regional and group company committees. Findings are used by the Human Rights Promotion Committee to summarize activities and set policy directions on an annual basis to drive ongoing, structured educational activities that promote respect for human rights. In order to communicate and entrench the Fujitsu Group Human Rights Statement in the culture of all group companies, we created "Business and Human Rights" posters and displayed them in approximately 230 work locations in Japan and other countries.
 

 

 

 

Education on Human Rights. 
Based on the policy directions set by the Human Rights Promotion Committee, Fujitsu and the group companies within Japan conduct education and training activities using course content that is common across the company as well as content targeting issues specific to a region or group company. There are training programs that all employees undertake when joining the company and upon promotion, as well as other training programs held year-round. These training programs cover various human rights issues, including discrimination against minorities, workplace harassment, understanding of LGBT issues, and human rights issues related to business operations. At Fujitsu, we believe it is crucial for a culture of understanding to be championed by senior management in order to instill respect for human rights. Therefore, we conduct training for newly appointed executives in Fujitsu and our group companies in Japan that addresses our approach to corporate activities based on international human rights standards. Moreover, the Fujitsu Group has developed an e-learning program on "Business and Human Rights” that is intended for. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-2-1-3 all group employees and aims to heighten awareness about human rights issues for every member of staff. As at the end of FY2018, approximately 100,000 employees of group companies, both in Japan and other countries, had undertaken this training program.
Framework for reporting and consulting on Human Rights issues. 
The Fujitsu Group conducts its business activities worldwide in close collaboration with local communities. As stated in the. 
Fujitsu Way, we have established systems to engage in human rights-related consultations and information gathering both inside and outside the company, in order to listen to and understand the opinions of various parties.
The Fujitsu Group has created an intranet-based system for all Fujitsu Group employees to consult and provide input on human rights-related issues. Within Japan, Fujitsu has set up Human Rights Consultation Service facilities in 16 locations. The matters discussed are reported to the Human Rights Promotion Committee and regularly communicated to auditors, with careful consideration given to ensuring that personal information and privacy are respected. The objective is to understand the utilization status of this consultation service as well as to put in place initiatives designed to prevent recurrences of any breaches.
The Fujitsu Group has established the Compliance Line/Fujitsu Alert to receive reports and offer consultations related to compliance issues, including human rights issues, from all Fujitsu Group employees, customers, suppliers and other third parties globally. The Fujitsu Group has also set up the Compliance Line for Suppliers in Japan as a channel for receiving reports from suppliers in Japan regarding any actions that are potential or actual instances of non-compliance in our purchasing activities.
  Global Compliance Program https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/compliance/#anc-03. 
Initiatives to Prevent Forced Labor and Child Labor. 
The Fujitsu Group has stipulated that it will not use forced labor or child labor. Every year, the Fujitsu Group conducts a written. 
CSR survey based on the ISO 26000 standard in order to check on our initiatives for preventing forced labor and child labor.
We also make our stakeholders aware of the Fujitsu Group CSR Procurement Guideline, which includes provisions on the elimination of forced labor and child labor. Furthermore, we request our suppliers to complete a written survey on the status of. 
CSR initiatives including steps to eliminate forced labor and child labor.
 Implementing CSR Activities Utilizing ISO 26000 https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/vision/policy/index.html  Implementing CSR Activities Utilizing ISO 26000 https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/procurement/index.html. 

 

 

 

 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-2-1-4. 
Achievements in FY2018. 
Fujitsu Initiatives Addressing Human Rights Issues in Three Areas of Human Rights Due Diligence. 
Areas Human. 
Rights Issues Major Activities in FY2018. 
Supply chain. 
Work environment / conflict minerals  Revised the name of the "Fujitsu Group Policy on Conflict Minerals” to the "Fujitsu Group. 
Policy on Responsible Minerals Sourcing” and expanded the range of applicable minerals  Conducted a CSR Survey to check the adoption status of the RBA Code of Conduct by suppliers (208 key companies we purchase goods from) and actioned the feedback from the survey results  Notified "manufacturing subcontractors” and "manufacturing employment agencies” of the Fujitsu Group CSR Procurement Guideline and requested these companies to submit their written agreement to the guideline  Conducted RBA Code of Conduct adoption audits of nine suppliers  Confirmed the compliance status with the RBA Code of Conduct at Fujitsu group manufacturing sites  Conducted RBA Code of Conduct adoption mock audits of three group manufacturing sites in Japan and elsewhere. 
Employees. 
Discrimination and harassment / working hours  Conducted a written survey of 97 group companies in Japan and other countries based on the ISO 26000 standard, to check on the status of initiatives promoting respect for human rights  In addition to expressing Fujitsu's support for the UN’s “Standards of Conduct for. 
Tackling Discrimination against LGBTI people” we invited external experts to speak on this topic at a liaison meeting, which the President and all executives attended. This provided an opportunity to think about how to create workplaces and a society which are inclusive, irrespective of a person's sexual orientation or gender identification.
 Continued training for new and promoted employees, as well as human rights training by region throughout Japan, with the aim of preventing various forms of discrimination and harassment  Conducted group-wide "Barrier-Free Minds" workshop (group-based training and e- learning) aimed at establishing workplaces and a society in which everyone can participate actively, whether disabled or not  Reviewed internal systems, monitored ICT usage, and delivered management reforms to promote diversified, flexible workstyles that do not assume long working hours are necessary  Conducted "Unconscious Bias” online training for all employees to help reveal underlying systemic discrimination while also further promoting diversity and inclusion  Reviewed internal corporate regulations, documentation, and so on to ensure alignment with the RBA Code of Conduct. 
Customers and end users. 
Privacy and data security  Announced the “Fujitsu Group AI Commitment” and conducted an assessment of the impact of AI on human rights. We will systematically identify the points that should be taken into consideration for each industry and for the tasks in each occupation when promoting AI businesses and then refer to these points when planning specific measures.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-2-1-5. 
Education on Human Rights Issues  Employee training conducted by Fujitsu and group companies in Japan at various locations: 37,814 attendees  Discrimination against minorities, workplace harassment, promoting an understanding of gender diversity, and human rights issues related to business operations  New employee training conducted by Fujitsu and group companies in Japan: 1,125 attendees (Fujitsu attendees)  Discrimination against minorities, workplace harassment, promoting an understanding of gender diversity, and human rights issues related to business operations  Training for promoted employees conducted by Fujitsu and group companies in Japan: 2,796 attendees (Fujitsu attendees)  Discrimination against minorities, workplace harassment, promoting an understanding of gender diversity, and human rights issues related to business operations  New executive training conducted by Fujitsu and group companies in Japan: 97 attendees  Training that addresses our approach to corporate activities based on international human rights standards. 
Activities to Raise Awareness of Human Rights Issues  Held a contest in which employees of Fujitsu and group companies in Japan and their families devised slogans to promote human rights awareness: 6,590 submissions received  Distributed human rights promotional leaflets to employees of Fujitsu and group companies in Japan  Displayed posters promoting human rights awareness in the workplaces of Fujitsu and group companies in Japan. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-2-2-1. 
Goal. 
Long-term Goal to be achieved by FY2030. 
Be a responsible business that reflects the diversity of our world and build an inclusive culture where everyone can be completely themselves.
We will celebrate difference and ensure that people can succeed regardless of their personal identity, especially their gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, race, ethnicity, health, disability, and age.
Diversity and Inclusion 

 

 

⇩ Diversity and Inclusion Policy ⇩ Diversity Promotion Framework ⇩ Application of International Standards ⇩ Support of Female Employees ⇩ Employment and Support of People with Impairment ⇩ Support of Global Personnel ⇩ Support of a Healthy Work-Life Balance ⇩ Creating a More LGBT-Friendly Workplace ⇩ External Awards / Certifications ⇩ FY 2018 Performance. 
Diversity and Inclusion Policy. 
Here at the Fujitsu Group, we engage in efforts to advance diversity and inclusion. These efforts are based on one of our corporate values: “We respect diversity and support individual growth.” Nowadays, diversity refers not only to factors like gender, impairment, and nationality, but also to things like work style, communication style, and multi-culturalism, in a variety of different settings and from a variety of different perspectives.
We established the Global D&I Vision & Inclusion Wheel to reflect this expansion in definition. It acts as a guideline, helping further advance our efforts toward inclusion and diversity within our employees. This wheel expresses the Fujitsu Group’s overall efforts as they relate to D&I, and also defines what D&I means for the Group. The Global D&I Vision states that our ultimate goal is for each and every employee to be able to express themselves and their individual strengths. The wheel also defines the vision, strategic goals, and focus areas required to realize this goal. We also clarify, through the Inclusion Wheel, that our efforts toward D&I will be wide-ranging, covering a diverse array of factors and fields, while staying rooted in our focus areas.
 

 

 

 

 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-2-2-2. 
Diversity Promotion Framework. 
Here at Fujitsu, we established the Diversity Promotion Office in 2008. The office, which is under the direction of the President and the Diversity Officer, engages in efforts to promote diversity and inclusion in all group companies.
The office regularly hosts meetings attended by all regional Diversity Promotion Representatives, where they share the issues and policies they have experienced/implemented in each region, and generate ideas as to global promotional policies. All group companies in Japan are also required to select a diversity promotion manager. These managers promote diversity in the Group as a whole by sharing information amongst each other during their meetings, strengthening their coordination with Fujitsu, helping standardize policies, and more.
We also conduct an annual survey on diversity aimed toward all employees, in order to maintain an awareness of our current circumstances with regard to diversity promotion. The survey, along with other sources of data, revealed four elements that needed to be addressed in our companies in Japan: boss management style, workplace environment, awareness among individual employees, and work-life balance. From these, we derived three focus areas—corporate culture reform, support for individual growth, and work-style reform—that we have prioritized for our efforts.
Application of International Standards. 
In FY 2017, the Fujitsu Group issued a CEO Statement of Support for the Women’s Empowerment Principles, which were created by the UN Global Compact and UN Women. In doing so, we pledged our support of the principles. In FY 2018, we also became the first. 
Japanese company to pledge our support to the UN’s LGBTI Standards of Conduct, and have been proactive overall in our adaptation to global trends in diversity.
Support of Female Employees. 
Our current priority at Fujitsu is to meet the numerical goals we have set to increase the number of female managers in our group companies (20% female employees and 20% newly appointed female managers by 2020), and are currently working to fulfill these goals. These efforts involve nominating female employees from the leader level as candidates for top management, and establishing/implementing individually-tailored training programs for these employees alongside their workplace, the management, HR, and the Diversity Promotion Office. In addition to these kinds of management-track leadership programs, we also conduct workshops and events that allow female employees to reflect and build on their careers in other tracks as well. These act as pipelines to drive female employees to further advancement, and allow us to support the careers of each and every employee.
 

 

 

 

 

 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-2-2-3. 

 

 

 

 


Female Leadership Development Program. 
Since FY 2011, Fujitsu and its group companies in Japan have conducted a training program that aims to cultivate personnel for future leadership and managerial positions. This program is meant to support the long-term career development of female employees.
Members chosen from each division gather for intensive courses and. 
OJT, focused mainly on teamwork, over the course of approximately six months. Over this time, they develop management skills and learn to think in more career-oriented ways. At the end, each team makes their proposal to the management.
More than 60% of the employees that have gone through this program have been promoted, and it has had a definitive effect on the career development of female employees within the Group.
Career Workshop for Female Employees. 
In order to further encourage the career development of female employees, Fujitsu and its group companies in Japan provide female employees opportunities to engage in dialogue with multiple role models, Fujitsu managers, and more. This workshop is open mainly to young female employees that are on a leadership track. Our goal with the workshop is to help eliminate any internalized prejudice as to their manager-level career development, expand their career options, and acquire the broader perspective needed to perform in high-level positions.
Career Development Seminar. 
Fujitsu and its group companies in Japan host seminars aimed toward a wide range of our female employees, in order to support their career development. Participants in the program attend lectures by in-house and external role models, engage in group discussion, and more in order to cultivate a more challenge-driven mindset, and a mid- to long-term perspective with regard to their career development and sustained growth in their respective companies.
International Women’s Day Events. 
The Fujitsu Group engages in various efforts in honor of International Women’s Day, on March 8. On the global scale, we published short interviews with female employees in countries all over the world, on our in-house portal website. In Japan, we engaged in various efforts under the theme, “For the Continued Success of Women,” hosting lectures by successful in-house role models,
Presentation by program participants. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-2-2-4 lectures by industrial physicians as to the medical perspective on health and beauty, as well as networking sessions for female employees.
Support of the Kanagawa Women’s Activity Support Group. 
The Kanagawa Women’s Activity Support Group is made up of top male officials from well-known companies, administrative offices, universities, and other organizations that are headquartered (or have a major business office) in Kanagawa Prefecture, and that have been active in their support of women’s career development. Supporting members share relevant initiatives in their own organizations through declarations of conduct, and in doing so, work to create and drive the women’s career development movement in the area. In November 2015, Fujitsu became a supporting company of the group, and. 
President Tanaka delivered a declaration of conduct aimed toward the expansion of the women’s career development movement.
The group now boasts 20 supporting organizations, and is working to vitalize relevant efforts in the area.
  Declaration of Conduct for Women’s Activity Support https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/documents/about/csr/diversity/Woman_act.pdf. 
Employment and Support of People with Impairment. 
At Fujitsu, we do not impose restrictions on the types of jobs available to people with impairment. As such, there are people with impairment who work in a wide range of jobs, from sales staff to SEs, R&D staff, administrative staff, and more.
During the hiring process, we distribute pamphlets aimed toward job seekers with impairment. This pamphlet includes employee interviews, as well as information as to our stance on the employment of people with impairment, and the wide range of jobs available to them. In explaining how we provide an affirming and individually-oriented workplace for all, regardless of impairment, we hope to relieve them of any anxiety they may have about their employment. We also conduct long-term follow-up on these employees, from training until they become settled in their jobs, to encourage them to stay with us for the long term. Examples of this include special training programs when they enter the company, and workplace-oriented consultations so that each employee is able to perform to the best of their abilities.
We also created a manual for workplaces that are to receive employees with impairment, called the Work Style Guideline. It lists the things that employees should consider when working with employees with impairment, according to each type of impairment.
Impairment-Oriented Diversity Promotion Forum. 
Fujitsu hosts forums that aim to support people with impairment in the workplace. In FY 2018, the forum was held under the theme of developmental impairment for the very first time. It featured lectures from outside specialists and people with developmental impairment, as well as a workshop using a simulator.
Efforts for the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. 
The Fujitsu Group aims to go beyond fulfilling legally-mandated quotas, to creating a corporate culture conducive to the individual. 
Declaration of Conduct. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-2-2-5 expression and growth of all employees, regardless of impairment, and have established policies in order to accomplish this goal.
On December 3, the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, we send out an internal newsletter in purple, in support of the international Purple Light Up event. On the global scale, we shared a webinar introducing relevant efforts being made in various regions, and in Japan, we held a screening event under the theme of hearing impairment.
Special Subsidiaries to Promote the Employment of People with Impairment. 
Fujitsu and its group companies in Japan have established special subsidiaries in order to provide people with impairment a wider range of workplaces. These subsidiaries work to cater to the unique needs of each and every individual, and create workplaces where they can thrive.
Support of Global Personnel. 
Fujitsu works to create a corporate culture conducive to the individual growth and expression of all employees, regardless of nationality or ethnicity. We hire global personnel (international students, foreign university students, etc.) by participating in career events for international students both in and out of Japan, hosting our own seminars, accepting foreign university students as interns, and more. As a result, 391 employees with foreign nationality work at Fujitsu as of the end of March 2019.
In 2007, Fujitsu established the Integr8 project, which aims to support foreign employees and allow them to perform to the best of their abilities in the company. Through this project, we have worked to create a working environment that is more comfortable for our global personnel. As part of the project, we offer an intranet that provides explanations as to Japanese rules/regulations,
HR procedures for business trips, visa acquisition procedures, information about food, clothing, and shelter, and more, to help these employees adapt more easily to the Fujitsu work environment and to their lives in Japan. There are also services that allow these employees to ask questions and receive consultation in English. The project has also been expanded to support the international integration of Fujitsu workplaces throughout the world. In order to accomplish this, we provide support for the establishment of global societies within the Fujitsu Group, host workshops to hear from our foreign employees and encourage them to share information, host networking events for new foreign employees and older foreign employees, and more.

Year Established # of People with. 
Impairment. 
Main Work Tasks Business Office(s)
Fujitsu FSAS Inc. 1955 33. 
Repair of ATMs, PCs, and printed circuit boards; various tasks for Fujitsu maintenance services. 
Beppu. 
Fujitsu Harmony. 
Limited 2013 105. 
Recycling; office environment work; health maintenance work; creation of free gifts; operational support of meetings/events; order/sale of box lunches; support of health check- ups. 
Kawasaki, Numazu,
Shinagawa,
Shibaura. 
Yokohama, Shin-
Koyasu, Aomori,
Sapporo, Nagano,
Sendai, Niigata,
Omiya, Okinawa. 
Fujitsu Social Science. 
Laboratory Limited 2017 12. 
In-house delivery tasks; office support; maintenance/management of office environment; recycling-related tasks. 
Kawasaki. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-2-2-6. 
Support of a Healthy Work-Life Balance. 
Fujitsu is working to establish a system that allows employees to better balance their work and private life, including such events as pregnancy, child care, and long-term care.
Fujitsu has established an Action Plan（*1） in accordance with the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next. 
Generation, with regard to pregnancy and childbirth. We also provide babysitter subsidies, have in-house childcare facilities in our business offices, and offer a forum for employees returning from parental leave, to support their return to work and encourage them to create a network in their workplace. Since FY 2016, we have required that all applicable employees attend this seminar, and have worked to drive diversity management in general, for instance by increasing the frequency of seminars aimed toward the supervisors of employees with children, since FY 2017.
 *1 Action Plan The first Action Plan was implemented in 2005. This current one is the 6th Action Plan (April 1, 2018 – March 31, 2021).
  6th Action Plan (96KB) (Japanese content only) https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/documents/about/csr/employees/system/season-6-action-plan.pdf. 
In November 2015, we received the Platinum Kurumin certification from the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare. This certification is only given to companies that establish action plans based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation, receive the Kurumin certification, then go above and beyond with advanced initiatives to achieve a healthy work-life balance for their employees.
Since FY 2017, we have also hosted the Balancing Work and Long-Term Care seminar for employees involved in long-term care. The seminar provides an opportunity to learn basic knowledge about long-term care in general, including support policies both inside and outside of the company, the mental/emotional attitude needed, and the preparation that goes into providing long-term care.
Creating a More LGBT-Friendly Workplace. 
Fujitsu is working to drive deeper understanding of gender and sexual diversity in order to create a workplace where every employee can feel secure and comfortable and perform to the absolute best of their abilities.
In 2016, we released a President’s Message addressed to all employees of the Fujitsu Group, announcing our commitment to creating a more LGBT- friendly workplace and working towards diversity and inclusion within the group. In Japan, we have also worked to expand internal policies such as the provision of condolence money, vacation days, and leaves, to include same-sex partners as well.
Our efforts to raise Group-wide awareness include providing training on human rights, distributing leaflets, hosting lectures aimed toward managers, and sending messages through the intranet. In addition, we also host LGBT+Ally Meetings, where employees can engage in discussion with LGBT individuals, in order to expand the network of LGBT allies. In the past, we have hosted screening events under the theme of LGBT and LGBT allyship (2017: The Case Against 8 / 2018: Kalanchoe). In recent years, participants of these events have begun naturally to declare their LGBT allyship in the workplace, by putting stickers in rainbow colors (a symbol of respect for the LGBT community) on their office laptops, business card holders, and more.
Company volunteers participate in the parade. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-2-2-7. 
External Awards / Certifications. 
For the list of the awards given for our activities, please visit the following URL.
 External Recognition and Awards https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/evaluation/index.html. 
FY 2018 Performance. 
Efforts Toward Corporate Culture Reform (Fujitsu)  Held Companywide Diversity Promotion Forums: 300 participants  Offered Unconscious Bias e-Learning class: 29,859 employees completed  Held executive-oriented lecture (Japan): LGBT and Corporate Efforts (Lecturer: Masakazu Yanagisawa, good aging yells)
Efforts Toward Female Employee Career Development (Fujitsu)  Female employee rate: 17.1 / Female manager rate: 6.15% / Newly-appointed female manager rate: 11.5%  Held Female Leadership Development Program: 78 participants  Held Female Employee Career Workshop: 48 participants  Held Career Development Seminar (2 times): 146 participants  Held International Women’s Day event (Japan): 60 participants. 
Efforts Toward the Support and Employment of People with Impairment (Fujitsu)  Rate of employment for people with impairment: 2.28% (June 2018)  Held Diversity Promotion Forum for employees with impairment: 63 participants  Held screening event for International Day of People with Disability, under the theme of hearing impairment (Japan)
Efforts Toward the Support and Employment of Global Personnel (Fujitsu)  Held Integr8 workshop / events: 2 times. 
Efforts Toward the Support of a Healthy Work-Life Balance (Fujitsu)  In-house childcare facilities: 2 facilities added in FY 2018 (3 total)  Diversity Promotion Seminar for employees on parental leave: 2 times / 101 participants. 
Health advice from public health nurses, speeches by female executives with child-rearing experience, lectures by external speakers, group discussions  Diversity Management Seminar for supervisors of employees with children: 2 times / 108 participants. 
Lectures about the characteristics of child-rearing female employees, lectures on management by external speakers, group discussions  Number of Employees Utilizing Pregnancy and/or Childcare Policies, and Reinstatement/Retention Rates of Employees on. 
Parental Leave. 

 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-2-2-8. 
Number of Employees Utilizing Policies (FY 2018: Fujitsu) (Unit: # of employees) 
Reinstatement/Retention Rates After Parental/Long-Term Care Leave (FY 2018: Fujitsu)
Reinstatement Rate Retention Rate. 
Parental Leave 99.5% 97.8%
Family Care Leave 95% 71.4% 
# of Users Men Women. 
Child Care Break 442 60 382. 
Family Care Break 17 12 5. 
Reduced Working Hours (Child Care) 841 19 822. 
Reduced Working Hours (Family Care) 9 3 6. 
Paternity Break 585 585 -
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-3. 

 

 

 
Global Responsible Business - Wellbeing - 

The Fujitsu Group aims to enrich and continuously improve our positive health culture where our employees can work to their full potential, both in mind and body. We value the importance of our people, and will strive to enable them to succeed in their own personal development and growth.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-3-1-1. 
Goal. 
Long-term Goal to be achieved by FY2030. 
The Fujitsu Group aims to enrich and continuously improve our positive health culture where our employees can work to their full potential, both in mind and body. We value the importance of our people, and will strive to enable them to succeed in their own personal development and growth.
Performance Evaluation and Compensation / Work Environment 

 

 
⇩ Performance Evaluation and Compensation ⇩ Work Environment ⇩ Employee Benefits Program ⇩ Measures to Enhance Communication ⇩ Employee Engagement Survey ⇩ FY2018 Performance. 
Performance Evaluation and Compensation. 
Our Approach. 
The Fujitsu Way corporate philosophy emphasizes that employees are one of the key factors we value and states "We respect diversity and support individual growth”. As a company, we will create workplaces that support the personal growth of employees, allowing them to fully develop their skills and capabilities and receive compensation according to their performance. Fujitsu manages its human resources based on this approach.
 

 

 

 

 

 
Our Policy. 
Fujitsu emphasizes “qualitative” fairness in its human resources system, with decisions on employee compensation based on the “level of contribution to the Company” and the “level of results achieved”.
For this reason, we disclose information related to human resources.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-3-1-2 1. Show employees how they can be rewarded with higher compensation ⇒ Openly disclose rules of the human resources system 2. Show how the company evaluates staff ⇒ Provide individual evaluation feedback and compensate according to contribution 3. Show opportunities for challenge ⇒ Human resource development, internal postings, Free Agent program. 
In Japan, Fujitsu and the group companies have introduced a "human resources system based on functional division and competency grade”. Under this system, which forms the basis for human resources compensation, we define "functional division" as the function the employee should be fulfilling and "competency grade" as the ability to achieve a specific performance that can be linked to a business outcome.
Under this human resources system, we clarify the competency grade requirements of employees in a job description for each functional division. Through periodical reviews of the competencies that each person demonstrates, we aim to support the growth of all employees over the medium and long terms.

Responsibility. 
The Global Human Resources Unit operates this system, under the direction of the executive responsible for human resources.

Detailed Activities. 
The Global Human Resources Unit operates this system, und er the direction of the executive responsible for human resources.
We conduct evaluations of "initiatives aimed at medium-to- long-term growth" and "maximizing results in the current financial period”. To reflect these in compensation, we use a two-pronged evaluation mechanism based on competency evaluations and performance evaluations. The results of the competency evaluations are reflected in salary increases and grade changes, and the results of performance evaluations are reflected in bonuses.
We conduct activity-based evaluations of the degree to which employees demonstrate "appropriate mindset", "business execution ability" and "specialist expertise", and then take into account the relative gap to upper-level grades before determining the overall evaluation.
By separating medium-to-long-term factors from the process, we are able to conduct more clear-cut evaluations based on the scale of half-year results.
In addition, we continue to support efforts aimed at the medium-to-long-term growth of each employee. With a focus on career goals, we also encourage interactive communication between employees and their managers that covers the areas of behavioural change and medium-to-long-term growth. Review meetings are conducted annually at the beginning of each year.
Furthermore, we have started formulating a globally unified role framework, as well as evaluation standards and evaluation cycles.
 

 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-3-1-3. 
Work Environment. 
Fujitsu Telework System. 
In April 2017, Fujitsu formally introduced a telework system that allows for flexible ways of working that are not tied to a specific location. This system is available to all 32,000 Fujitsu parent company employees in Japan and includes working from home or a satellite office as well as working during business trips.
The introduction of the system was preceded by a series of explanatory briefings.
 

 

 

 

Goals of the System  To boost individual productivity and maximize the benefits of team work  To build an environment that supports continued participation by a diverse range of staff  To ensure business continuity and rapid responses to disasters. 
Initiatives Aimed at Reducing Long Working Hours. 
The Fujitsu Group aims to improve the work-life balance and the productivity of every employee through a variety of initiatives aimed at reducing long working hours. As an example, at Fujitsu Headquarters, every Wednesday is designated as a day for leaving work on time. On these days, the company turns off the lights in the office at 6:00 p.m. to encourage employees to return home.
We are also enhancing our systems that support diverse ways of working, allowing employees to make use of flexible working arrangements, such as flex time and exempt labor systems（*1）. In addition to promoting varied ways of working, Fujitsu wants its staff to radically reconsider their approach to taking leave. To ensure that employees enjoy ample leisure time, we are encouraging them to take five continuous days of paid leave at any time during the year – not only in the key public holiday periods in Japan.
 *1 Exempt labor system: A system in which the employee mostly determines the number of hours for the work to be performed.
 
Examples of specific initiatives aimed at reducing long working hours:  Adopting flex time, a exempt labor system for professional work, and a exempt labor system for management-related work  Sending alert e-mails regarding overtime work  Ensuring meetings are not scheduled outside of regular working hours  Specifying the recommended days for taking annual leave  Enforcing that staff leave work on time one day a week  Encouraging staff to leave work one hour earlier every day  Enforcing the concept of working hours management during management training  Promoting a telework system aimed at diverse work practices  Adjusting work patterns and leisure patterns according to fluctuations in workload. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-3-1-4. 
Employee Benefits Program. 
The Fujitsu Group has programs in place that are suited to the lifestyles of employees and that enable them and their families to lead healthy, prosperous lives.
To respond to the advancing trends of globalization and diversity, and to the changing needs of employees, in October 2014 Fujitsu introduced the “F Life+” cafeteria plan（*2） as a new employee benefits program.
Furthermore, in line with the belief that active work and personal growth for every employee leads to growth and development for the company, we have established various initiatives to support employees' own efforts to prepare for the future. These include savings/property accumulation programs, an employee shareholding association, group insurance benefits, housing support, medical support, health support, and childcare support.
 *2 Cafeteria plan: A system under which employees select the employee benefits they want or need from a diverse menu prepared by the company, taking advantage of the chosen options by using "employee benefits points" awarded by the company.

Measures to Enhance Communication. 
Labor Relations. 
Based on labor-management agreements with the Fujitsu Labor Union, Fujitsu holds discussions about various employment conditions and explains management policies and business conditions, along with business reorganization and other matters, to its employees through regular and ad hoc meetings such as the Labor Council or Productivity Council. Furthermore, these agreements stipulate the collective bargaining rights of the union. Fujitsu adopts a union shop system, so all non-managerial employees are members of the Fujitsu Labor Union.
In Europe, the Fujitsu European Labor Relations Council Annual General Meeting has taken place every year since 2000, with the overall financial conditions of the Fujitsu Group and other issues shared with the employee representatives from Fujitsu Group companies.
Fujitsu has established a consultation service as a contact point for email and phone queries to the Human Resources and. 
Administration Units. This is part of a structure that is designed to make it easy for employees to seek guidance on human resource and administrative programs.
Employee Engagement Survey. 
In order to continue as "an organization wherein all employees are strongly motivated, have ample opportunities for advancement and work with pride and confidence" in accordance with the Fujitsu Way, the Fujitsu Group conducts employee satisfaction surveys that provide opportunities for serious consideration about ways in which the management in each organization can improve employees' motivation.
We have been gradually introducing this survey in Japan since FY2002, and outside Japan we began conducting an Employee. 
Engagement Survey across all overseas Group companies in FY2011. We use this survey to compare regions within the Fujitsu Group and also to benchmark ourselves against our competitors in each country and region. Based on analysis of the results, we have identified issues specific to countries and regions, and to divisions and occupations, and we are now working toward management improvements and reform of our organizational culture.
 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-3-1-5. 
FY2018 Performance. 
Initiatives Aimed at Reducing Long Working Hours. 
The discretionary working system applies to 17% of employees, and the flex time system applies to 64% of employees (in Fujitsu and group companies in Japan).
Work-style Reforms. 
Held Telework Days and Telework Month (at Fujitsu)
To encourage further uptake of the telework system by employees, we implemented an initiative where we asked all employees to participate in telework days (July 23-27). Around 40% of employees (15,000 people) teleworked on one or more days that week.
In conjunction with these designated teleworking days, we also held online seminars on effective teleworking methods and workstyle reforms. During "Telework Month (November 1-30)” we again called for all employees to telework and we continue to proactively strive for diversified, flexible working practices.
Unionization Rate. 
The Fujitsu Labor Union membership rate is 77.9% (Fujitsu).
Employee Engagement Survey 

 Number of employees targeted in the survey (as of Oct.
2018):
Total 126,000 employees.
84,000 : Employees in Fujitsu Limited and 79 Group companies in Japan.
42,000 : Overseas Employees.
・Survey response rate: 81% globally (82% in Japan; 77% overseas) ・Positive response rate: 52% (Fujitsu Limited) 
Trend in Turnover Rate. 

 

 

 


Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-3-2-1. 
Goal. 
Long-term Goal to be achieved by FY2030. 
The Fujitsu Group aims to enrich and continuously improve our positive health culture where our employees can work to their full potential, both in mind and body. We value the importance of our people, and will strive to enable them to succeed in their own personal development and growth.
Health Management 

 

 
⇩ Our Health Management Policy ⇩ Health Management Promotion Structure and Regular Checkups ⇩ Major Initiatives ⇩ Assessments from Outside the Company ⇩ FY2018 Performance. 
Our Health Management Policy. 
In order to make the corporate philosophy of the Fujitsu Way a reality, and to tackle health management while simultaneously addressing work-style reform and diversity management, the Fujitsu Group has developed the Fujitsu Group Health Statement to make it clear that we will situate the health of our employees as the cornerstone of our operations. Furthermore, taking our internal company accomplishments up to this point into account, we are strategically implementing health maintenance and improvement or our employees and their families.

Fujitsu Group Health Statement and Key Measures. 
Health Management Promotion Structure and Regular Checkups. 
The structure for promoting health management is led by the Chief Health Officer, in coordination with the Human Resources Unit, the Health Promotion Dept., and the Fujitsu Health Insurance Society. Together, the team works to enforce, enhance and expand health promotion measures at offices and Group companies. The team regularly holds meetings with related divisions within the. 
Group, including those related to health care, and implements company-wide data-based initiatives that follow the PDCA cycle.
 

 

 

 


Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-3-2-2. 
Major Initiatives. 
Health Checkups. 
Fujitsu and domestic Group companies conduct regular health checkups which include stomach examinations, fecal occult blood tests and other examinations for each age group, in accordance with legally mandated health examination items. Through feedback from occupational physicians and occupational welfare staff about the results, we strive to have employees understand the test results correctly and improve their health awareness, while also consistently encouraging them to undergo specialized tests and outpatient consultations at medical institutions. Furthermore, as a preventative measure against major illnesses, after employee checkups, we coordinate with health insurance societies to monitor the medical prescriptions of employees who have been diagnosed as requiring medical treatment due to their test results. We contribute to appropriate medical treatment by once again encouraging employees who have not undergone treatment to go for outpatient consultations.
Furthermore, through coordination with the Fujitsu Health Insurance Society, we help to detect cancer in its early stages by offering free gynecological examinations and subsidies to offset the costs of brain and lung checkups.
Health Education. 
Fujitsu and domestic Group companies conduct health education to boost employees’ awareness of their health, which is tailored to the workplace environment of each business office. Please consult the “FY 2018 Accomplishments” column for information about health education achievements in FY 2018.
Mental Health Care. 
Fujitsu has established in-house mental health support facilities, and full-time psychiatrists and counselors support employees and workplaces by providing consultations, counseling, employment assistance for mental health patients, relapse prevention measures and all sorts of mental health education.

We support employee self-care by providing stress diagnostic tools, while integrating analyses of group results with ES surveys and other internal company surveys and providing feedback to management. By offering stress management education and holding workshops to build healthy and enthusiastic workplaces, Fujitsu reduces employee stress and provides support to energize the places where they work.

A stress diagnostic tool and individual results. 
A system that allows employees to view health checkup results on their PC or smartphone. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-3-2-3. 
Health Promotion Events. 
Fujitsu and domestic Group companies conduct walking events, strength measurement tests, lunch seminars, “stop smoking” events, and other activities to promote exercise, nutrition education and abstaining from tobacco use. We are also moving forward with looking into activities like providing healthy menu offerings at employee cafeterias and taking steps to prevent secondhand smoke, in coordination with other divisions. In addition, we are leveraging various opportunities to tackle primary prevention through measures to promote physical and mental health, such as running female employee-targeted health seminars and distributing email newsletters.
 “Let’s Walk Together,” A Walking Event for All Companies. 
In this event, held twice a year in the spring and fall, participants use smartphone apps and other tools to compete based on their average number of steps. Participants can join as individuals or as teams to compete, and the top walkers in each division receive awards.
 “Let’s Stop Smoking Together” Challenge. 
In this event, two to five people form a team with one smoker, who attempts to quit smoking with the support of the team. Teams who successfully get their smoking member to quit are awarded incentives from the company.
Support for Balancing Work with Medical Treatment. 
Fujitsu and domestic Group companies provide support for early detection and treatment of diseases, beginning with disease prevention through various kinds of stratified health education, in addition to measures such as offering brain and lung checkups during health checkups. We also provide health support that is specially adapted to the disease of each individual, from care while they are absent up until they return to work, so that they can receive the appropriate medical treatment and work with enthusiasm during treatment.
Infectious Disease Countermeasures. 
Fujitsu and domestic Group companies work proactively to keep employees safe from various infectious diseases by establishing health consultation services and dispensing information, among other initiatives. As preventative measures against infectious diseases, we give seasonal influenza vaccinations at companies, in addition to giving vaccinations to employees stationed overseas which are recommended in each place they will be staying (at company expense). With regard to the issue of rubella, which has been growing in recent years, we are cooperating with local governments to conduct education and public awareness campaigns.
Assessments from Outside the Company. 
Certified as One of the White 500 Health and Productivity Enterprises. 
The Health and Productivity Enterprises (White 500) certification system recognizes companies that work to strategically improve employee health management from the perspective of management. Fujitsu, which has been lauded for its systematic approach to health maintenance and improvement, was certified in FY 2019 for the third year in a row.
Furthermore, in 2019, 10 domestic Group companies in the large-scale enterprise category and four companies in the small to medium-scale enterprise category were certified.
  Large-scale enterprise category: Fujitsu FIP, Fujitsu FSAS, Fujitsu Kyushu Systems,
Shimane Fujitsu, Shinko Electric Industries, Fujitsu General, Fujitsu Software Technologies, Fujitsu Social Science Laboratory,
Fujitsu Marketing, PFU  Small to medium-scale enterprise category: Best Life Promotion, Fujitsu Aprico, Mobile Techno, G-Search. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-3-2-4. 
FY2018 Performance. 
Percentage of Employees with Health Concerns. 
Target: Full-time employees of Fujitsu Ltd. at the end of the fiscal year Respondents who exercise regularly: Percentage of those who said they exercise regularly when they underwent health checkups  Body fat: Neutral fats of 150mg/dl or higher and HDL cholesterol below 40  Obesity: BMI of 25 or higher  Blood pressure: Systolic blood pressure of 130mmHg or higher and diastolic blood pressure of 85mmHg or higher  Percentage of smokers: Those who said that they smoke when they underwent health checkups  Blood sugar level: People with a blood sugar level over 110mg/dl or an Hba1c level over 6.0% who are receiving treatment for that particular item. 
Percentage of Employees Who Took a Long-Term Leave of Absence or Medical Leave. 
Target: Full-time employees of Fujitsu Ltd. at the end of the fiscal year. 
Percentage of people who had taken a leave of absence or taken medical leave for a continuous period in excess of one month by the end of the fiscal year. 

 
Health Promotion Accomplishments  ”Let’s Walk Together,” A Walking Event for All Companies: Roughly 1,500 teams and 15,000 participants (Fujitsu and domestic Group companies)  ”Let’s Stop Smoking Together” Challenge: Roughly 1,490 participants (Fujitsu and domestic Group companies)
Education and Training Accomplishments  Mental health education targeted at employees receiving promotions: 1,300 learners a year (Fujitsu)  Online mental health seminars: Roughly 3,000 learners a year (Fujitsu and domestic Group companies)  Workplace management training targeted at managers: Roughly 1,800 participants, once every three years) (Fujitsu)
Percentage of Employees Who Underwent Health Checkups  Percentage of employees who underwent health checkups in 2018: 99.9% (Fujitsu)
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-3-3-1. 
Goal. 
Long-term Goal to be achieved by FY2030. 
The Fujitsu Group aims to enrich and continuously improve our positive health culture where our employees can work to their full potential, both in mind and body. We value the importance of our people, and will strive to enable them to succeed in their own personal development and growth.
 
Human Resource Development and Career Design 

 

 ⇩ Policy ⇩ Promotion Framework and Periodic Review ⇩ Human Resource Educational System ⇩ Cultivate Business Leaders ⇩ Efforts to Develop Human Resources in Accordance with the Management Strategy ⇩ Professional Certification System ⇩ Support the Growth of Diverse Individuals ⇩ FY2018 Performance. 
Policy. 
Fujitsu emphasizes the following four themes in the development of human resources. While collaborating with each business group and the Human Resources unit, the. 
Human Resources Development Unit works to strengthen our. 
Group from both perspectives of cultivating human resources and strengthening organizational capability.
 Cultivate Business Leaders: Cultivation of core human resources and global human resources from a long-term perspective  Cultivate by Position/Role: From new employees to executives, enable each person to acquire the knowledge and skills required for their position and role  Cultivate Professionals: Cultivate professionals in each specialized field and enable them to acquire knowledge of advanced technology and the latest skills  Support the Growth of Diverse Individuals: Support the performance of diverse individuals through measures such as promoting diversity and inclusion, supporting career development, and providing education on human right. 
Promotion Framework and Periodic Review. 
Fujitsu has established a Group-Wide Talent Strategy. 
Committee comprised mainly of executives at the management level and above. The committee meets twice a year to discuss the Fujitsu vision and human resources strategy for achieving our business strategy. Under the policies of this Group-Wide. 
Talent Strategy Committee, the Human Resources Development. 
Planning Office reviews priority measures and frameworks for implementing measures, and designs education initiatives shared by the entire company. Furthermore, each unit has a. 
Human Resources Development Division which oversees education for the unit, position-specific training, and specialized training. The division conducts human resource training across the entire division for each position, including. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-3-3-2 for domestic group companies.
Education is mainly conducted by the group company Fujitsu Learning Media Limited, which specializes in education.
Human Resource Educational System. 
For all employees at Fujitsu and domestic Group companies, we provide shared education and specialized education. The latter improves the specialization of various departments and job types. We also provide various forms of self-development support to assist employees engaged in personal study.
Our rank-specific training programs are positioned as an important part of shared education. In addition to inputting necessary items across all ranks, the training includes shared items which require improvement across all ranks; for example, leadership, financial accounting, and facilitation.
Units implementing human resources development constantly work to improve training for individuals by utilizing various information such as training questionnaires and the latest educational methods.
Cultivate Business Leaders. 
With the aim of long-term cultivation, Fujitsu selects personnel with high potential from among young to mid-range employees, and then provides opportunities for growth through action learning based on actual work.
Additionally, to expand its business in the field of innovation, Fujitsu is strengthening its organizational framework and human resource to better collaborate with diverse people, to generate business opportunities. At the core of cultivating global business leaders is the Global Knowledge. 
Institute (GKI), which started in 2000. As of FY 2018, a total of over 1,200. 
GKI graduates are performing in Japan and overseas. Fujitsu revises the GKI-A President Sessions. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-3-3-3 curriculum of the GKI as occasion demands, to keep up with changes in business and managerial environment. Efforts to Develop Human Resources in Accordance with the Management Strategy. 
Fujitsu and domestic Group companies are carrying out human resources development at each department with an emphasis on specialization closer to their respective fields.
For details on human resources development at each department, please refer to the following URL.
  Efforts to Develop Human Resources in Accordance with the Management Strategy https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/employees/education/jinkai.pdf. 
Professional Certification System. 
Fujitsu and domestic Group companies have established a professional certification system for cultivating professional in various specialized fields. Every year, new certifications are issued through a screening process consisting of essays and interview. For employees who are already certified, we hold periodic screenings for certificate renewals to assist with continued skill retention.
Furthermore, certified employees engage in community activities in various categories to further enhance their own skills, distribute information, and mentor their successors.

Professional Certification Categories (FY 2018, including 38 domestic group companies)  Sales:
Strategy, Account Management, Solutions  System Engineers:
Consulting, Project Management, Business Architecture, IT Architecture, Service Management, Quality Management,
Product Architecture, IP Management  Engineers:
Product Planning, Architecture Development, Software Development, Hardware and Firmware Development, Quality. 
Assurance Skills, Manufacturing and Production Skills. 
Support the Growth of Diverse Individuals. 
Fujitsu works to energize its organizations and human resources by building a rewarding workplace culture that values career development and by providing various forms of support that encourage each employee to pursue self-initiated career formation.
To facilitate these efforts, we have created specialized organizations for career design support. Specifically, we implement measures such as career seminars, career counseling, the Internal Posting Program, the Internal Recruiting Program, the Free Agent (FA)
Program, and support activities for senior employees. These activities are in compliance with the revisions to the Human Resources. 
Development Promotion Act in effect since April 2016. For details, please refer to the following URL.
  Career Design Support https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/employees/education/career.pdf. 

 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-3-3-4. 
FY2018 Performance 
 Professional Certification Categories (FY 2018, including 38 domestic group companies)  Sales: 578 certified employees  System Engineers: 2,720 certified employees  Engineers: 571 certified employees 
 Career Design  Career seminars: 1,645 employees  Internal Posting Program: 86 employees 
 Average Annual Hours Spent Studying and Annual Cost of Education Per Employee (FY 2017; tabulated in October every year) 


Managers Regular Employees Total Average. 
Average Annual Hours Spent. 
Studying 34.8 hours 49.4 hours 45.3 hours. 
Annual Cost of Education 61,100 yen 91,300 yen 82,300 yen. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4. 

 

 

 
Global Responsible Business 
- Environment - 

In line with the "FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision”, a Medium- to Long-Term Environmental Vision for 2050 which clarifies the role to be played in tackling global climate change as well as the future vision to be realized, we will work on to achieve zero emissions of the CO2 from our own operation by 2050, and contribute to climate change adaptation as well as a de-carbonized society through technology supporting digital transformation.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-1. 
Environmental Management Environmental Policy at the Fujitsu Group. 
The Fujitsu Group is aware of its responsibilities as a global ICT company and seeks to reduce environmental burden, while working toward a sustainable and prosperous society together with its customers and society.
Environmental Policy. 
Since its founding in 1935, the Fujitsu Group has made environmental preservation one of the most important elements in its management, based on its philosophy of "manufacturing in harmony with nature." We have formulated the Fujitsu Group. 
Environmental Policy to promote environmental management reflecting the distinct character of our businesses.
In 1992, when Agenda 21*1 was adopted at the Rio de Janeiro Global Summit, we established Fujitsu’s Commitment to the. 
Environment. This was created in the mold of the Global Environment Charter, announced by the Japanese Federation of Economic. 
Organizations in the previous year. In October 2002, when the Johannesburg Summit was held, and summit participants were debating how to execute Agenda 21 in a more effective way, we revised this Commitment to create a Fujitsu Group Environmental. 
Policy. Our objective in this revision was to implement environmental management in a way that reflects the distinct character of the Fujitsu Group’s business, responding to more and more diverse problems where environmental management is increasingly vital.
*1 Agenda 21: A concrete plan of action for sustainable development, to be carried out by various countries and international organizations. It involves programs to deal with environmental issues, including social and economic problems such as population, poverty and human settlement issues, as well as soil, forests, the atmosphere, desertification, agriculture, biodiversity, water, hazardous wastes and chemical materials.

Philosophy. 
The Fujitsu Group recognizes that global environmental protection is a vital business issue. By utilizing our technological expertise and creative talents in the ICT industry, we seek to contribute to the promotion of sustainable development. In addition, while observing all environmental regulations in our business operations, we are actively pursuing environmental protection activities on our own initiative. Through our individual and collective actions, we will continuously strive to safeguard a rich natural environment for future generations.

Principles  We help customers and society reduce the environmental impact of their business activities and improve environmental efficiency with comprehensive services that include advanced technologies, ICT products and solutions.
 We proactively promote environmentally conscious business activities to help the environment and economy coexist harmoniously.
 We strive to reduce the environmental impact of our ICT products and solutions throughout their entire lifecycle.
 We are committed to conserving energy and natural resources, and practice the 3Rs approach (reduce, reuse and recycle) to create best-of-breed eco-friendly products and solutions.
 We seek to reduce risks to human health and the environment from the use of chemical substances and waste.
 We disclose environment-related information on our business activities, ICT products and solutions, and utilize the resulting feedbacks to critique ourselves in order to further improve our environmental programs.
 We encourage our employees to work on global environmental conservation such as tackling climate change and preservation of biodiversity through their business and civic activities to be role models in society.

Revised in April 2011. 
President. 
Fujitsu Limited. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-2. 
The lifecycle includes "Procurement", "Distribution and Logistics", "Development and Manufacturing", "Usage", "Recycle and. 
Management of Waste", etc. The stakeholders through the lifecycle represent "Suppliers", "Contractors", "Clients", "Business. 
Partners" and so on.
Medium- to Long-term Environmental Vision "FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision" 
The Fujitsu Group has established the "FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision," a medium- to long-term environmental vision through 2050, with the goal of bringing the Fujitsu Group's CO2 emissions to zero, and achieving a decarbonized society, as well as contributing to the response to climate change, through technology supporting digital transformation.
  The Fujitsu Group Medium/Long-term Environmental Vision “FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision” https://www.fujitsu.com/global/microsite/fujitsu-climate-and-energy-vision/ 
Approval by Science Based Targets (SBT) Initiative. 
In August 2017, the reduction targets of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from its business facilities and a part of value chain, set by. 
Fujitsu Group, was approved by Science Based Targets (SBT) initiative as being at science based level. The SBT initiative was established in 2015 jointly by a number of organizations, including the World. 
Resources Institute (WRI) and UN Global Compact. It encourages companies to set goals for reducing GHG emission based on scientific evidence, in order to limit the global temperature increase to less than 2°C over pre-industrial revolution temperatures.

Targets  To reduce GHG emissions from our business facilities by 33% by FY 2030 and 80% by FY 2050 in comparison to FY 2013.
 To reduce GHG emissions from our business value chain (purchased goods and services, and the use of sold products) by 30% by FY 2030 in comparison to FY 2013.
Joining RE100 as Japan’s First Gold Member. 
In July 2018, Fujitsu joined RE100, which strives to significantly expand the adoption of renewable energy at a global scale, as Japan's first Gold Member. RE100 is an international initiative led by The. 
Climate Group in partnership with CDP and consists of companies committed to source 100% of the electricity they use from renewable sources.
The Fujitsu Group will consider the appropriate steps for each region and expand its procurement of electricity from renewable sources at locations in Japan and around the world, starting with data centers outside Japan. The Group will concurrently continue its work on R&D and technology trials for energy management and storage, and contribute to the spread of renewable energy in society as a whole.

Renewable Energy Electricity Usage Goals at Fujitsu Group Locations  Goal ： 100% by 2050  Intermediate Goal ： 40% by 2030. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-3. 
Support for the TCFD Recommendations. 
The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) was established by the Financial Stability Board at the request of. 
G20 with the objective to reduce the risk of instability in the financial market due to climate change. The task force announced its recommendations in June 2017 asking companies and organizations to gain understanding of and disclose the risks and opportunities arising from climate change. The Fujitsu Group announced its support for the TCFD recommendations in April 2019 and strives to disclose information in line with the recommendations, including responding to CDP.

Item Response Status Reference. 
Governance Under our system for promoting environmental management, we have established the Environmental & CSR Management Committee chaired by the. 
President. This committee deliberates on medium- and long-term issues, makes policies, shares the risks and opportunities arising from climate change, determines measures to tackle them and manages the progress of these activities. It also reports the results of these activities to the Board of. 
Directors at the meetings of the Management Council. In addition, we analyze and respond to risks faced throughout the Group, including those from climate change, under the supervision of the Board as part of our Group-wide risk management system.
• Environmental. 
Management System. 
Strategy Based on the analyses of risks and opportunities arising from climate change in the medium to long term (2030-2050), we have formulated the FUJITSU. 
Climate and Energy Vision, a medium- to long-term environmental vision through 2050.
As the world strives for decarbonization, we recognize that any delay in action can lead to risks. Therefore, this vision aims to promote zero CO2 emissions from our company using ICT and contribute technology services that support digital innovation to build a decarbonized society and cope with climate change, including turning know-how gained into services.
• Medium- to long-term environmental vision. 
Risk. 
Management. 
The Fujitsu Group manages risks through committees and management systems. Our risk management system starts with identifying and evaluating risks. We then rank the risks by the frequency of their occurrence and impact level, and the relevant committees determine measures to avoid, mitigate, transfer or accept them as well as check the progress of such measures. Major risks are periodically reported to the Board of Directors.
• Response to risks from climate change • Environmental. 
Management System • Risk Management. 
Indicators &
Targets. 
We have formulated the medium- to long-term vision to tackle climate change in the medium to long term, and the Environmental Action Plan for short-term targets. We manage the progress of our strategy by monitoring the indicators set in the vision and action plan.
• Medium- to long-term environmental vision • Environmental Action. 
Plan (Stage VIII) • Environmental Action. 
Plan (Stage IX) 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-4. 
First ICT Services Company to Garner "Eco-First" Credentials. 
In September 2010, Fujitsu became the first ICT services company to be certified under Japan's Ministry of the Environment's "Eco-First Program."
Under the program, industry-leading companies pledge to fulfill their environmental commitments to the Minister of the Environment in areas such as countering climate change and conserving biodiversity as a way to further promote their environmental protection initiatives.
 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-5. 
Environmental Management The Fujitsu Group Medium/Long-term Environmental Vision “FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision” 
The Fujitsu Group has established the “FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision, ”a medium- to long-term environmental vision with the goal of bringing the Fujitsu Group’s CO2 emissions to zero by 2050, as well as contributing to the achievement of a decarbonized society and the adaptation to climate change, through provision of technologies and services supporting digital transformation.
Concept. 
As an international framework of measures against global warming starting in 2020, the Paris Agreement, which sets a goal of limiting the rise in global average temperature to less than 2℃ above the average temperature prior to the industrial revolution, came into effect in November 2016. In order to achieve this, the goal to “achieve a balance between emissions and removals of greenhouse gases (GHG) in the second half of this century” has been set, and a shift to a decarbonized society will be necessary beginning in 2050.
Various change are taking place in the global market as well, and it is expected that regulations on CO2 emissions will be tightened, carbon taxes and other carbon pricing will be applied to more countries, and carbon tax will rise sharply. In addition, investment taking into account Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors is expanding, which is also exerting a significant influence on market rules.
This vision has three pillars, namely, “Our Business: Achieve Zero CO2 Emissions”, “Mitigation: Contribute to a Decarbonized Society” and “Adaptation: Contribute to Measures in Society to Adapt to Climate Change”. The Fujitsu Group aims to use ICT effectively to accelerate its own efforts to shift away from carbon, and by providing the knowledge gained from such efforts to customers and society as solutions, leverage its own business activities as a way to mitigate and adapt to climate change.

Note) Paris Agreement: New framework adopted by the 21st Session of the Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate. 
Change for measures to combat climate change starting in 2020.
Vision1 Achieving Zero CO2 Emissions in the Fujitsu Group. 
The Fujitsu Group established the challenging scenario of reducing its. 
CO2 emissions gradually to zero in three phases by 2050, with its intention to take the initiatives as a global ICT company to strive to create a decarbonized society. This scenario has been established with scenarios recommended by the Science Based Targets (SBT) initiatives. It is also consistent with the 2℃ goal*1.
PhaseⅠ
In PhaseⅠ(until 2020), from the perspective of usability and economic efficiency of the technology, in Japan, we will horizontally deploy energy conservation technologies that already exist, verify new energy conservation technologies that use AI, etc., and move forward with the use of low-carbon energy. Overseas, we will proactively implement renewable energy, focusing on the EU.
The Roadmap to reduce the Fujitsu Group’s CO2 Emissions to Zero by 2050. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-6. 
PhaseⅡ
In PhaseⅡ (until 2030), the Fujitsu Group will work to establish and spread a transition to AI and ZEB*2, etc. to accelerate the reduction of emissions. Further, we will expand strategic implementation of renewable energy, which is expected to be easier to use in Japan as well, with consideration given to local characteristic and economic efficiency.
PhaseⅢ
In PhaseⅢ(2030 and after), we will accelerate implementation of increasingly easy-to-use renewable energy, while supplementing with offsets from carbon credits, with an eye towards deploying and deepening innovative energy conservation technologies and shifting away from carbon.
The Fujitsu Group intends to increase the use of renewable energy in the electricity consumed at Fujitsu Group locations to at least 40% by 2030 and to 100% by 2050 with the membership gained in July 2018 to RE100. RE100 is a collaborative initiative led by The Climate Group in partnership with CDP, for companies committed to source 100% of the electricity they use from renewable sources.
 *1 The GHG reduction target, with the Group’s carbon credits subtracted, was approved by the SBT initiative.
*2 ZEB: Zero Energy Building. A building with significantly reduced yearly energy consumption achieved through conservation of energy in its structure and facilities, and thorough creation of energy by using solar power generation, etc.
Vision2 and 3 “Contributing to a Decarbonized Society” and “Contributing to Measures in Society to Adapt to Climate Change” 
The Fujitsu Group believes that ICT has the potential to contribute to the mitigation of and adaptation to climate change. To that end, we have established “Mitigation: Contribute to a Decarbonized Society” and “Adaptation: Contribute to Measures in Society to Adapt to. 
Climate Change” as pillars of Fujitsu's medium/long-term environmental vision, and are utilizing advanced ICT to create social innovation that contributes to resolving global environmental issues.

Vision2 Contributing to a Decarbonized Society. 
The Fujitsu Group contributes to the decarbonization of society by creating ecosystems with customers in a variety of industries and business types. The key point of mitigation measures is the utilization of AI and other advanced digital technologies to maximize energy efficiency. We will achieve optimal usage of energy for the overall societal system by incorporating those technologies into a mechanism that crosses the boundaries between businesses, industries, and regions.
Vision3 Contributing to Measures in. 
Society to Adapt to Climate Change. 
The key point of measures to adapt to the impact of climate change is advanced measuring technology using AI, big data, and simulations through sensing technology and high-performance computing (HPC), etc. Fujitsu will utilize these to create solutions to enable creation of a resilient societal infrastructure and stable supply of agricultural products, as well as solutions to minimize food product loss, thereby contributing to the minimization of damage to our customers and society caused by climate change.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-7. 
Environmental Management Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan. 
The Fujitsu Group views contribution to global sustainability as one of the responsibilities that a company must fulfill. With this in mind, we have been formulating environmental action plans once in every three years since 1993 and have expanded activities aimed at continuously reducing environmental impacts. In FY 2016-2018, we implemented and achieved the targets set in the. 
Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) and strengthened the base for steadily accomplishing our targets for reducing. 
GHG in line with global initiatives, such as SBT and RE100, to create a decarbonized society. We are now implementing the newly formulated Fujitsu Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) since April 2019.
Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) (FY 2019-2020) 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Paris Agreement were established as globally common goals to solve various environmental and social issues, including climate change and resource circulation. To achieve these, businesses are expected to collaborate with various stakeholders and take proactive actions to solve these issues. The Fujitsu Group announced its medium- to long-term environmental vision, FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision, to eliminate all its CO2 emission and contribute to mitigation and adaptation to climate change. By steadily advancing toward these goals through its Environmental Action Plan Stage IX and simultaneously expanding collaboration with stakeholders, the Fujitsu Group aims to reduce environmental burden in its supply chain and contribute to sustainable growth of society and customers.
Climate Change. 
Targets (till the end of FY 2020) 1. Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emission from business sites by more than 14% (compared to FY2013).
Reduce GHG emission by 2.1% year-on-year through voluntary efforts.
2. Improve PUE (Power Usage Effectiveness)*1 of our data centers by 2% or more compared to FY 2017.
3. Increase renewable energy usage by more than 20% compared to FY2017.
*1 PUE (Power Usage Effectiveness): An indicator of the efficiency of electric power usage by the data center. This value is calculated by dividing the data center's total electric power consumption by the electric power consumption of servers and other ICT devices. The closer the value is to 1.0, the higher is the efficiency.
Resource Circulation. 
Targets (till the end of FY 2020) 4. Promote eco design for resource saving and circulation and increase resource efficiency of newly developed products by 25% or more (compared to FY 2014).
5. Reduce amounts of waste generated by an average of more than 5% compared to FY 2012-2014.
6. Maintain over 90% resource reuse rate of business ICT equipment.
7. Reduce total water usage by 1% compared to FY2017.
8. Limit the release of chemical pollutants (PRTR) to less than the average of FY 2012-2014.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-8. 
Supply Chain. 
Targets (till the end of FY 2020) 9. Reduce CO2 emission due to power consumption during product usage by more than 14% (compared to FY2013).
10. Drive activities to reduce CO2 emissions and conserve water resources in the upstream supply chain.
SDGs. 
Targets (till the end of FY 2020) 11. Contribute to the achievement of SDGs through ICT services.
 

Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) (FY 2016-2018) 
Fujitsu Group endeavors to help limit the increase in the global average temperature to below 2 degrees Celsius, as adopted in the. 
Paris Agreement at COP21, while striving to achieve zero emissions as a long-term goal. In our Environmental Action Plan (Stage. 
VIII), we further intensified the activities undertaken under Stage VII in terms of our social contribution through business as well as reduction of environmental impact arising from our business activities. In concrete terms, we improved customers' and society's sustainability through ICT services and enhancing our products' energy and resource efficiency. We also reduced greenhouse gas emissions and environmental impact caused by our business throughout the value chain.
Fujitsu Group will work steadily on its Environmental Action Plan to meet the objectives of the FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision, our medium- to long-term environmental vision through 2050.
Our Society. 
Targets (till the end of FY 2018) Performance in 2018 Status*2. 
Contribute to sustainable development and preservation of biodiversity through ICT services 
1. Contribute to sustainable development of society through ICT services. Published 18 cases ✓ 2. Develop innovative technologies that address environmental issues. Announced 84 key green technologies*3 ✓
Improve environmental value of products throughout their lifecycle 
3. Achieve top-level energy efficiency for 50% or more of the new products. 67.9% achieved ✓ 4. Promote eco design for resource saving and circulation and increase resource efficiency of newly developed products by 15% or more.
(Compared to FY2014) 25% improvement ✓ 5. Maintain over 90% resource reuse rate of business ICT equipment. 91.7% achieved ✓ 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-9. 
Our Business 

*2 ✓ : Target achieved ; × : Target unachieved *3 Key green technologies: Technologies for reducing power and energy, improving man-hour efficiency, conserving resources, and resolving social issues.
 
RELATED LINKS. 
Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VII) http://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/environment/approach/plan/stage7/index.html. 
Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage VI) http://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/environment/approach/plan/stage6/index.html. 
Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage V) http://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/environment/approach/plan/stage5/index.html. 
Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage IV) http://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/environment/approach/plan/stage4/index.html. 
Fujitsu Group Environmental Protection Program (Stage III) http://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/environment/approach/plan/stage3/index.html. 
Targets (till the end of FY 2018) Performance in 2018 Status*2. 
Reduce greenhouse gas emissions throughout the value chain 
6. Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in our business facilities. 
Reduce GHG emissions by 5% or more compared to FY 2013. 30.3% reduction ✓
Improve PUE of our data centers by 8% or more compared to FY 2013. 6.7% improvement ×
Improve energy intensity by an average of 1% or more each year. 1.1% improvement ✓
Increase usage of renewable energy to at least 6%. 8.6% achieved ✓ 7. Drive activities to reduce CO2emissions in the supply chain.
Requested secondary suppliers (over 46,000 companies) to implement. 
CO2-reduction activities.
✓ 8. Reduce CO2 emissions per sales from transport by an average of 2% or more each year. 6.2% reduction ✓
Reduce environmental impact 
9. Reduce water consumption by 1% in total (128,000 m3). 2.6% reduction ✓ 10. Reduce chemical pollutant (PRTR) release to less than the average level of FY 2012–2014 (20.7 t). 9.3 tons ✓ 11. Reduce the amount of waste generated to less than the average level of FY 2012–2014 (25,568 t). 19,056 tons ✓
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-10. 
Environmental Management Environmental Management System. 
We are continuously working to improve our ISO14001*1 based environmental management systems and to promote Group-wide environmental management.
 *1 ISO14001: Environmental Management Systems (EMS) standard determined by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). Certification is granted to environmentally conscious organizations that develop systems for ongoing reductions in their environmental footprint.
Fujitsu Group’s Environmental Management Systems (EMS) 
Fujitsu has constructed Environmental Management Systems (EMS) based on the ISO 14001 international standard and is promoting environmental improvement activities across the Group. After acquiring ISO 14001 certification for Japanese consolidated subsidiaries at the end of FY 2004, we expanded this effort to include overseas subsidiaries and acquired global integrated certification in FY 2005.
Environmental Management Framework. 
To conduct comprehensive discussions on the Fujitsu Group’s environmental management, we have established an Environmental & CSR Management Committee chaired by the president. This committee considers medium-to-long term issues, implements policy decisions and discusses methods for handling and sharing operating risks and opportunities from climate change, all with the aim of raising the level of the Group’s environmental management and strengthening its governance. Based on that, final decisions on environmental management at the Fujitsu Group are made at meetings of the Management Council and reported to the Board of Directors.
Subordinate to the Environmental & CSR Management Committee, we have organized environmental issue-specific committees composed of concerned parties that go beyond the framework of business groups and business units. Through this promotion structure, we are quickly diffusing initiatives on these issues throughout the Group.
We have also established an Environmental Management Working Group (WG) which is working to unify global information transmission and strengthen environmental management systems (EMS) activities.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-11. 
Constructing and Operating Environmental Management Systems. 
The Fujitsu Group has constructed EMS based on the ISO 14001 international standard and is promoting environmental improvement activities across the group. By constructing EMS worldwide, the Fujitsu Group further strengthened its Group governance. This also allows the Group to promote even more efficient and highly effective environmental activities, including understanding the state of activities, legal compliance, and emergency response.
As of March 2019, the Fujitsu Group has acquired global integrated ISO 14001 certification for a total of 119 companies of Fujitsu and its Japanese Group companies, as well as for 12 overseas Group companies.

Environmental Management Systems Audit Findings and Result. 
FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018. 
Internal audit Findings 145 122 102. 
External audit Findings 4 8 3. 
Opportunities for improvement 103 126 113. 
Activity Flow. 
The Environmental & CSR Management Committee proposes, deliberates, and decides upon environmental matters relating to all. 
Group companies. It determines the directions to be taken for energy usage volume, CO2 emissions reductions, ways to address environmental risk, and other medium-to-long term matters important to environmental management at an overall level. The. 
Environmental & CSR Management Committee also conducts environmental management reviews and is exercising approval authority for the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan.
The issue-specific committees are subcommittees set up by the Environmental & CSR Management Committee to provide dedicated responses to specific issues. Their main role is to discuss targets for the Environmental Action Plan and check on the progress being made for each target. The Environmental & CSR Management Committee gives approvals and directions, according to the issue- specific committees’ progress reports and the Environmental Action Plan related WG’s progress report.
 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-12. 
Management Based on the Line/Site Matrix Structure. 
The Fujitsu Group carries out its environmental management within a matrix structure combining (1) "line activities" directly tied to the business operations of various divisions and companies (including development of eco-friendly products and the expansion of environmental contribution solutions) and (2) "site activities" to tackle common themes affecting each factory or business location (such as energy conservation and waste reduction).
In this way we carry our environmental management according to the same framework as our management, while also reducing the environmental footprint generated by our business activities and the sale of our products and services.
 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-13. 
Environmental Management Case Studies, Initiatives in Environmental Management. 
Operations Utilizing ICT. 
The Fujitsu Group actively utilizes its own ICT-driven environmental management tools to visualize and boost the efficiency of its environmental management.
EMS Operations Using ICT. 
The Fujitsu Group employs its own ICT-driven environmental management tools. Examples include the Global Environment. 
Database System (GEDS) which can centrally manage aspects such as planning, performance, and policy information, at business sites scattered throughout the world, and the ISO 14001 Green Management System (GMS) which centrally manages compliance and risk management status to support EMS operations. These tools are employed to visualize environmental management and make it more efficient. Additionally, the communication infrastructure of all companies in the Fujitsu Group is used for EMS operations, including smart communications for EMS operations such as video conferencing systems used to conduct briefings in each area.
Using the Global Environment Database System. 
The Global Environment Database System (GEDS) is used to gather information about the environmental footprint (performance) of Fujitsu Group companies and business sites and centrally manage aspects such as planning, performance, and policy information.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-14. 
Using the ISO 14001 Green Management System. 
The ISO 14001 Green Management System (GMS) is used to exercise unified control over the operational status of the EMS with regard to improvements in and conformance issues relating to findings from internal audits, communications activities, direct and indirect effects identified in environmental impact assessments, and the setting of environmental management objectives and targets.
GMS enables corrective measures and objectives to be certainly managed, and effectively ensures continual improvement of the activities with reduced risks.
 
Implementing Environmental Audits. 
Internal Audit Implementation and Results. 
The Fujitsu Group conducts internal audits, a requirement of ISO 14001. To ensure the objectivity and independence of internal audits, the Corporate Internal Audit Division, takes the lead, allocating internal auditors who belong to Fujitsu or Fujitsu Group companies and carries them out.
In FY 2018, we carried out internal audits within Fujitsu and Group Company for factories, offices, and other facilities at 340 in. 
Japan and at 19 overseas. When conducting the audits, we scrutinized the results of FY 2017 internal and external audits, took the opinions and instructions of the Environmental Management Committee into consideration, and emphasis was placed on the three main tasks of (1) compliance, (2) operational control, and (3) organization operating original EMS.
There were 102 total findings (both Japan and overseas), of which 36% related to ISO14001:2015, , relating to methods for managing chemical substances and industrial waste. Overseas, receiving cooperation from external experts thoroughly knowledgeable in local laws and regulations and operation, we carried out internal audits with the objective of strengthening compliance and it leads to obtain less finding to point out. Started the same trial to organization in Japan.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-15. 
External Audit and Results. 
To maintain our ISO 14001 certification, we are carrying out external audits by a certifying body. In FY 2018, we were audited in. 
Japan by the Japan Audit and Certification Organization for Environment and Quality (JACO). Outside Japan, we were audited by. 
DNV GL Business Assurance Japan K.K.
As the results, opportunities for improvement 67 in Japan and 46 overseas.
Three minor nonconformities were identified at our overseas. We have completed corrective actions by the end of FY 2018. Those were shared throughout the Group in order to help efforts to prevent recurrences.
These audits were carried out, and as a result of the judgment of the two certifying bodies, we were able to continue ISO 14001:2015 certification acquired.
Compliance with Environmental Laws. 
There were no major legal or regulatory violations or accidents with major impact on the environment in the Fujitsu Group during. 
FY 2018.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-16. 
Environmental Management Green Procurement. 
We are implementing green procurement alongside our business partners, to provide customers with products and services that have light environmental footprints.
Procurement Activities Based on Green Procurement Direction. 
The Fujitsu Group summarized its requirements for business partners regarding the purchase of green parts, materials, and products, in the "Fujitsu Group Green Procurement Direction." The Group implements green procurement activities under this direction, together with business partners in Japan and overseas, and promotes procurement from business partners that fulfill the green procurement requirements (see below).
Using the Fujitsu Group Environmental Survey Sheet, we conduct annual monitoring of our business partners' statuses with regard to environmental management systems, CO2 emission reduction, biodiversity preservation, and water resource preservation activities, and ask them to take appropriate measures.
  Fujitsu Group Green Procurement Direction https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/procurement/green/ 
Green procurement requirements for business partners 
*1 Business partners (materials/parts): Business partners that supply components for Fujitsu Group products or OEM/ODM products. 
Establishment of Environmental Management Systems. 
We request our business partners to establish environmental management systems (EMS) as a base for ensuring that they independently and continuously improve their environmental-preservation activities. In general, we prefer them to have third party-certified EMS. If this is not possible, we ask them to build EMS incorporating the PDCA cycle suited to their circumstances.

Requirements Business partners (materials/parts)*1. 
Business partners (non-materials/parts) 1. Establishment of environmental management systems (EMS) ✔ ✔ 2. Compliance with regulations for Fujitsu Group specified chemical substances ✔ ― 3. Establishment of chemical substance management systems (CMS) ✔ ― 4. CO2 emission control/reduction initiatives ✔ ✔ 5. Biodiversity preservation initiatives ✔ ✔ 6. Water resource preservation initiatives ✔ ✔
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-17. 
CO2 Emission Reduction Initiatives. 
The Fujitsu Group also asks our business partners to work toward CO2 emission reduction in hopes of addressing climate change.
Specifically, we ask them to clearly express the intentions of their initiatives and request that they make efforts to achieve the objectives they set. We also ask them to collaborate with external organizations, where possible, and encourage their own suppliers to make similar efforts, in order to expand the initiatives outside their respective businesses. Our annual Supply Chain Business. 
Continuity Survey gives us a clear picture of how business partners are responding to a variety of climate-change risks, including tsunamis, floods, and torrential rains.

Acquiring and Managing Information on Chemical Substances Contained in Products. 
Countries around the world are establishing legal regulations as to the chemical substances contained in products, for instance the RoHS directive*2 and the REACH regulation*3. The scope of such regulations is expanding on an almost day-to-day basis, covering more and more substances, products, and applications.
The Fujitsu Group, using chemSHERPA*4 as its standard format, investigates and acquires information on the chemical substances contained in our products. We share our findings with Group companies via our internal system, and allow relevant parties to access the information whenever necessary. We have established a system that allows for quick adaptation to revisions of laws/regulations and the enactment of new legal systems.
 *2 RoHS directive: Directive on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment *3 REACH regulation: Regulation for Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals *4 chemSHERPA: Chemical Information Sharing and Exchange under Reporting Partnership in Supply Chain. 
Establishing a Chemical substance Management System (CMS) for Product Substances. 
The Fujitsu Group not only asks business partners for information on chemical substances contained in their products; we also ask them to establish a Chemical substances Management System (CMS), based on the industry-standard JAMP*5 guidelines on the management of chemical substances contained in products. Doing so enables the Group to comply even more thoroughly with laws and regulations related to the chemical substances contained in our products.
The Group also carries out CMS audits in order to confirm appropriate establishment and operation of such CMS. More specifically,
Fujitsu's auditors implement on-site evaluation of the management status of the chemical substances contained in our business partners’ products. If there are any inadequacies, auditors make requests for corrections and provide support for their enactment.
Even after the establishment of CMS, we maintain awareness of its operation status through periodic audits.
 *5 Joint Article Management Promotion-Consortium.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-18. 
Environmental Management Response to Environmental Risks. 
Environmental Risk Management Structure. 
The Fujitsu Group built and operates a group-wide risk management system to identify, prevent, and mitigate a variety of potential risks, or prevent their recurrence, including issues related to climate change and environmental pollution. The Risk Management & Compliance Committee, which reports directly to the Board of Directors, assesses the risks associated with the business activities of each division and each group company, and formulates a policy. We also leverage the group's Environmental Management. 
System (EMS), which is based on ISO14001, for minimizing risks to the environment through continuous improvements.
  Risk Management https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/riskmanagement/index.html  Environmental Management System https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/management/ems/activity/index.html. 
Efforts to Minimize Risks to the Environment. 
Dealing with Risks Related to Climate Change. 
There is a possibility of significant impacts on our business continuity from increases in the frequency and effects of natural disasters as a result of recent climate changes. For that reason, we have formulated a business continuity plan and are devoting effort to continually revising and improving the plan.
Furthermore, the implementation of stricter regulations for greenhouse gas emissions and a carbon taxes creates a risk of increasing the energy cost incurred by the Fujitsu Group, as well as the cost required for measures aimed at reducing greenhouse gases. Additionally, if climate change countermeasures are insufficient, there is a risk of harm to our corporate reputation or a disadvantage at bidding. In order to minimize these risks, we are conducting risk analysis/response within our company-wide risk management structure. Moreover, based on the FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision, we are working to achieve net zero CO2 emissions by 2050 and to contribute to mitigation/adaptation for climate change through business.
In accordance with the recommendations issued in 2017 by the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), the. 
Fujitsu Group analyzes and discloses information related to risks accompanying climate change that may have an impact on business and financial strategies. Refer to the table below for the currently recognized potential major risks and responses.

Risks Associated with the Transition to a Low Carbon Economy. 
Policy/Legal. 
Risks  Risks: Increase in cost in order to respond to the strengthened laws and regulations on greenhouse gas emissions and energy use, and diminished corporate value in the event of a violation.
 Response: Complete compliance with laws and regulations through EMS.
Technology. 
Risks  Risk: Unrecovered investments and market share decline in the event that the company lags behind in a fierce competition in technological development toward a carbon-free society.
 Response: Enhance development of energy-efficient products and energy-efficient enabling technologies, solutions, and services through steady implementation of Science Based Targets and our Environmental Action Plan.
Market Risks  Risk: Losing business opportunities if products, solutions, and services do not meet energy-saving performance needs.
 Response: Enhance development of energy-efficient products and energy-efficient enabling technologies, solutions, and services through steady implementation of Science Based Targets and our Environmental Action Plans.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-19. 
Risks to. 
Reputation  Risk: Decline in corporate value and an increase in response costs associated with a negative assessment from stakeholders on the response status of measures to counteract climate change.
 Response: Enhance measures to counteract climate change and promote reduction of environmental footprint through steady achievement of the group's Science Based Targets and. 
Environmental Action Plan.

Climate Change Related Risks in the Supply chain. 
Assessing and Monitoring of Potential Water Risks. 
In recent years, the supply and demand for water has become strained in many areas around the world due to a variety of factors, such as population growth and climate change, and there is a growing concern that this may become a business risk. The Fujitsu. 
Group conducts assessments of and monitors potential water risks for direct operations sites and supply chains.
In particular, the Group uses tools and databases provided by NGOs and governments at both country and municipal levels to check the status of water stress and the risk of natural disasters in the areas where businesses are located. We then comprehensively assess the water risk at each site by analyzing how important water use is in the business activities of each operations base, and we confirm the level of compliance in a variety of activities such as the reduction of water intake, measures to reduce pollution in wastewater, business continuity management (BCM) systems, and others. For the supply chain, we also assess our suppliers' flood preparedness and other water risks based on the supply chain BCM surveys, field surveys conducted according to the Responsible. 
Business Alliance's (RBA) code of conduct and the CDP Supply Chain Program. As a result, we have confirmed that there are no significant risks that could substantially affect our business activities.
  Fujitsu Group response to the CDP Water Questionnaire 2018 https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/environment/operation/water/CDP%20Water.pdf. 
Preventing Water Pollution. 
In order to preserve the water quality of surrounding waterways, including rivers, groundwater and sewers, we have set voluntary controls that are even tougher than legal mandates, and conduct measurement and monitoring on a regular basis. We recover and recycle chemicals used in production processes, instead of discharging them into wastewater. We are also working to properly manage and reduce discharge of harmful substances and other regulated substances (COD, BOD, etc.) by ensuring appropriate chemical use, preventing chemical leaks and penetration, and properly managing the operations of water treatment and purification facilities, among other measures.
Preventing Air Pollution. 
We have set voluntary control values that are more stringent than legally mandated emissions standards in order to prevent air pollution and limit acid rain. Regular measurement and monitoring is conducted based on these controls. Efforts are also made to appropriately process dust and soot, sulfur oxide, nitrogen oxide, and other harmful substances, and reduce emissions through measures including combustion management at facilities that produce soot and smoke, use of fuels with low sulfur content, and. 
Upstream. 
Supply Chain  Risk: A temporary suspension of the suppliers' business activities due to the occurrence of severe natural disasters such as large-scale floods, sudden heavy downpours, and lightning strikes, which affects the procurement of materials.
 Response: Conduct surveys of the business continuity capabilities of suppliers and implement measures to procure materials from multiple sources.
Downstream. 
Supply Chain  Risk: Losing business opportunities due to the inability to obtain environmental labelling, which is a green procurement requirement of customers.
 Response: Conduct trend surveys and risk assessments of the environmental labelling scheme.
Develop and provide top-level energy-efficient products through steady implementation of. 
Science Based Targets and our Environmental Action Plan.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-20 managing the operations of exhaust gas processing equipment. Furthermore, we have installed activated carbon adsorption treatment equipment and are reducing our atmospheric emissions of organic solvent vapors containing substances like VOCs.
Moreover, with the enactment in April 2015 of the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons, we have set in- house stipulations and striven for proper management of specified products (commercial refrigerators and air conditioners containing fluorocarbon refrigerants) while working to identify the volume of our fluorocarbon leakage. In addition, emission of dioxins has been prevented by suspending use of all in-house incineration facilities as of January 2000.
Preventing Destruction of the Ozone Layer. 
By implementing a precision water-wash system and non-wash soldering technology, we have completely eliminated the use of ozone-depleting substances in manufacturing processes (parts washing and solvents). We have also implemented leakage countermeasures for refrigerant chlorofluorocarbons used in air conditioning facilities (freezers, etc.), and are switching to non- chlorofluorocarbon gas when updating facilities.

Results for complete elimination of ozone-depleting substances. 
Ozone-depleting substances Time of complete elimination. 
Washing chlorofluorocarbons (CFC-113, CFC-115) End of 1992. 
Carbon tetrachloride End of 1992 1,1,1-trichloroethane End of October 1994. 
Alternative chlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) End of March 1999. 
Preventing Pollution of Soil and Groundwater. 
We have established rules for soil and groundwater surveys, measures and disclosures. We review these in accordance with changes in the law and social circumstances and respond based on these rules. We systematically examine soil and groundwater, based on the rules, and if pollution is confirmed, we carry out cleanup and countermeasures at each plant according to the situation, while working together with government authorities to disclose information.
As of FY 2018, there are four business sites where soil and groundwater pollution from prior business activities have been confirmed.
At those business sites, we have installed observation wells to observe effects outside the site due to groundwater pollution, while also working on purification measures through water-pumping aeration, etc.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-21. 
Business Sites Where Soil or Groundwater Contamination Has Been Found. 
Site. 
Name Location Cleanup and Measure Execution. 
Status. 
Maximum Value Found at. 
Observation Well (mg/L) Regulated. 
Level (mg/L) Substance Measured. 
Value. 
Kawasaki. 
Plant. 
Kawasaki City,
Kanagawa Prefecture. 
We are continuing to clean up. 
VOCs by pumping and aeration Cis-1, 2-dichloroethylene 3.6 0.04. 
Oyama. 
Plant. 
Oyama City,
Tochigi Prefecture. 
We are continuing to clean up. 
VOCs by pumping and aeration.
Cis-1, 2-dichloroethylene 2.58 0.04. 
Trichloroethylene 0.20 0.03. 
FDK Sanyo. 
Plant. 
Sanyo-Onoda City,
Yamaguchi Prefecture. 
We are continuing to clean up. 
VOCs by pumping and aeration. Trichloroethylene 0.031 0.03. 
FDK. 
Washizu. 
Plant. 
Kosai City,
Shizuoka Prefecture. 
We are continuing to clean up. 
VOCs by pumping and aeration.
Cis-1, 2-dichloroethylene 0.20 0.04. 
Trichloroethylene 0.42 0.03. 
Tetrachloroethylene 0.30 0.01. 
Chemical Substance Control. 
To prevent pollution of the natural environment or damage to health due to the use of harmful chemical substances, we are controlling the use of some 1,300 substances using our original Chemical Information System called "FACE" and working to appropriately control and reduce emissions at our business sites.
  Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII): Reducing Chemical Substances Emissions https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/operation/chemical/index.html. 
With regard to chemical substances included in products, we have determined banned substances according to regulations in Japan and worldwide and are working to thoroughly control them, not only inside the Group but also with business partners who deliver materials and products to us.
  Green Procurement https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/management/ems/procurement/index.html. 
Appropriately Processing Waste. 
We regularly carry out on-site audits in order to confirm that subcontractors are appropriately handling the waste processing tasks we entrust to them.
In addition, with regard to high concentration polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) waste (transformers and condensers) processing, we have registered with the Japan Environmental Storage & Safety Corporation (JESCO), which handles temporary storage and disposal of PCB waste under government supervision, and are carefully carrying out processing based on JESCO plans.
Conserving Biodiversity. 
Recognizing that activities benefit from the riches of the Earth's biodiversity while at the same time impacting it, the Fujitsu Group considers the conservation of biodiversity to be an important issue. In October 2009, we settled on the Fujitsu Group Biodiversity. 
Action Principles, and promote them based on the two pillars of reducing the impact of our business activities on biodiversity and contributing to the creation of a society that conserves biodiversity.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-22. 
Environmental Management Environmental Training and Awareness Activities for Employees. 
The Fujitsu Group conducts various environmental education and awareness activities based on the belief that “Greater environmental awareness and proactive efforts among all employees are essential for pursuing environmental management.”
Comprehensive Environmental Training. 
All employees undergo environmental e-Learning to facilitate a basic understanding of environmental management. In addition to training for new employees and for managers, training is also conducted on a per-division basis. Specialized trainings such as internal auditor training and training for those in charge of waste practices are also conducted for employees who are in charge of environment-related tasks.
Environmental e-Learning for Group Employees around the World. 
All employees undergo environmental e-Learning to promote their understanding of the Stage VIII Environmental Action Plan and facilitate their putting it into practice.
Example of an environmental e-Learning screen. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-23. 
Environmental Management Raising Awareness through an In-House Award Scheme. 
The Environmental Contribution Award. 
To raise environmental awareness among employees at all Fujitsu Group companies, we have established an Environmental. 
Contribution Award Scheme to recognize business and activities contributing to the environment. The award scheme is open to all employees and has been implemented every year since 1995.
In FY 2018 too, we received entries from various fields. Winning initiatives include technology for a blockchain-based exchange system for electricity, development of SMD-compatible micro all-solid battery, using AI technology to monitor threatened species with images taken by drones, a space observation system to accurately determine and forecast the risk of collision between artificial satellites and space debris, reducing wastes through a technology to recycle activated carbon filled in organic exhaust gas removal devices, and making gold medals for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games by recycling smartphones.
Winner of the FY 2018 Environmental Grand Prize (Environmental Contribution Award) 
 Increasing comfort and energy-saving abilities of domestic appliances using Edge AI technology. 
We installed the AI system based on edge-cloud collaboration framework, a first in the air conditioner industry, developed by Fujitsu and Fujitsu Laboratories in the Nocria X-series of room air conditioners made by Fujitsu General Ltd. These room air conditioners automatically operate in a way that provides comfort tailored to each person, while saving more energy, using real-time control and high-level learning capabilities.
 
nocria®X AS-X22J. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-1-24. 
Environmental Management In-House Environmental Seminar and Workshop. 
Believing that the first step toward achieving a sustainable society is to be aware of social and environmental issues and international trends, we conduct environmental seminars for our employees periodically. In FY 2018, the following two events were held.
September: 3rd SDGs Seminar by Industry (Finance & Distribution, Administration) 
In order to consider the utilization of digital technologies in the fields of finance & distribution and administration from the perspective of SDGs, we hosted lectures concerning cases in China and Demark, which are experiencing digital reform, as well as a lecture concerning Society 5.0 in Japan. These lectures were delivered by Ms. Weilin. 
Zhao of the Fujitsu Research Institute, Mr. Kensuke Nakajima of the Embassy of. 
Denmark, and Ms. Naoko Ogawa of Keidanren (the Japan Business Federation).
Following the lectures, we held a panel discussion about the type of digital reform that should be advanced and the types of SDGs that should be achieved in Japan. The moderator of this discussion was Mr. Setsu Mori, chief editor of the magazine alterna.
June: Special Lecture "Will Space Debris Bring About an Age without Satellites?" 
We welcomed Mr. Taguchi from Astroscale Pte. Ltd. in order to reacquaint ourselves with the concept that resolving environmental and social issues can lead to business. He delivered a lecture concerning space debris removal, which was previously thought by most space development professionals to be impossible to achieve. In the lecture, Mr. Taguchi addressed subjects such as the circumstances that led to the commercialization of space debris removal, as well as his company's business model.
 

From the left Mr. Setsu Mori, Ms. Naoko Ogawa, Mr. Kensuke Nakajima, Ms. Weilin Zhao. 
Mr. Yusuke Taguchi. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-1. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Contributing to a Sustainable Society Through ICT Services. 
Our Approach. 
The Fujitsu Group advocates “Contributing to a sustainable society through ICT services” as one of the goals of our Environmental. 
Action Plan Stage VIII. The United Nations adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in 2015, setting them out as clear international goals. The Fujitsu Group took this as an opportunity to aim for even greater contributions to the sustainability of customers and society.
Achieving a sustainable society will require not only measures to counter global warming by reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, but we will also need to address a number of other social and environmental problems through efforts such as resource- saving, conservation of biodiversity, stability in food supplies and measures to deal with urbanization, and disaster prevention.
Information and communication technology (ICT) that facilitates optimization, efficiency, and automation in a wide variety of fields has the potential to make tremendous contributions toward solving social and environmental problems. Together with our customers, the Fujitsu Group aims to contribute to the SDGs globally through provision of ICT services. FY 2018 Performance and Results. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Last fiscal year (FY 2018 results)
Contribute to the sustainable development of society through provision of ICT services.
18 cases published externally (25 cases of solutions that contribute to a sustainable society)
Publishing Cases of Initiatives that Contribute to the Development of a Sustainable Society Through ICT Services. 
Eighteen new cases of contributions have been posted on our website, including automated AI analysis of surveillance footage, and also combining this with the large capacity and high-speed processing technology of supercomputers to provide solutions that achieve smart surveillance of entire cities, and solutions that perform simulation analysis of car crash tests to evaluate crash safety performance without needing to produce large numbers of test cars for actual crash tests. Initiatives Toward a Sustainable Society: Reducing GHG Emissions Through ICT. 
Implementing ICT reduces the use of energy and resources and the movement of people and things, cuts down on office space and other things that can be made more efficient, which lead to reduced GHG emissions. The Fujitsu Group is quantifying GHG reduction effects through the implementation of ICT, and will be working to help expand the reduction in GHG emissions of customers and society as a whole.
 GHG Emission Reduction through the Provision of ICT https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/society/sustainability/contribution/
Examples of Contributions to SDGs. 
The Fujitsu Group contributes to the sustainable society advocated by the SDGs through the provision of ICT services.
 SDG-related Activities in Fujitsu https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/sdgs/
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-2. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions through ICT. 
Main Activities in FY 2018. 
Through the provision of ICT, the Fujitsu Group generates innovations that make energy usage and production activities more efficient and reduce the movement of people and things in a variety of fields in society, with the aim of helping to reduce GHG emissions. We believe that when large numbers of customers use ICT, it reduces GHG emissions for society as a whole while also leading to the sustainable growth of the Fujitsu Group. The Fujitsu Group is working to quantitatively visualize the degree to which its customers’ ICT usage contributes to GHG reductions, and to increase this amount, and is working to increase this amount. We recognized 22 new cases of environmentally conscious solutions in FY 2018, bringing the cumulative total to 539 and helping to reduce total CO2 emissions by 7.35 million tons.

Method to calculate contribution to GHG reduction. 
Fujitsu quantitatively assesses the effects of the environmental footprint reduction effects of our ICT implementations in terms of. 
CO2 emission reductions, using an ICT solution environmental impact assessment method developed by Fujitsu Laboratories Ltd.
(at least 500 cases have been assessed to date). Contribution to GHG reduction is calculated in terms of annual reduction amount, using the basic units in the case being assessed plus either the number of users of the solution, the number of clients, or annual sales.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 Environmental Impact Assessment Method for Solution Services https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/society/sustainability/contribution/certification/index.html. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-3. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Developing Innovative Technologies for Solving Environmental Issues. 
Our Approach. 
As the central R&D organization in the Fujitsu Group, Fujitsu Laboratories considers environmental contribution to be a top priority and is pushing forward with R&D activities geared toward the creation of a sustainable society. These R&D activities cover a wide range of fields including advanced materials, next-generation elements, computers, networks, and ICT systems, leading toward the creation of next-generation solutions, services, and business models.
Based on these efforts to develop revolutionary technologies, Fujitsu Laboratories advocates the “development of technologies that help solve social and environmental problems,” and is engaged in a variety of environmental initiatives. These include reducing CO2 emissions by saving energy and making operation more efficient, conserving resources, handling of natural disasters, conserving biodiversity, measures to counteract global warming, and more.
FY 2018 Performance and Results. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Last fiscal year (FY 2018 results)
Developing Innovative Technologies that address. 
Environmental Issues. 
Announced 84 key green technologies（*1） (Press announcements: 25, announcements at exhibitions & academic conferences: 59) 
*1 Key green technologies: Technologies for reducing power and energy consumption, improving work-hour efficiency, conserving resources, and solving social problems. 
Doing More to Announce the Technologies We Develop. 
As part of our Environmental Action Plan Stage VIII, we aim to further improve our ability to get messages to the outside world about the key green technologies that we have developed. In FY 2018 we promoted the environmental value of ICT to the outside world at press announcements, academic conferences, and exhibitions.
In terms of the SDGs, the technologies that Fujitsu announced externally in FY 2018 contribute primarily to “Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages” (Goal 3), "Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation" (Goal 9), "Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable" (Goal 11), "Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impact" (Goal 13), and "Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss" (Goal 15).
Development Achievements in FY 2018 (announced in the press) 
1. Fujitsu and Asahi Shuzo Launch Trial to Brew Sake Using Predictive AI 2. Fujitsu, SMU, and A*STAR Collaborate on Traffic Management Technologies with the Maritime and Port Authority of. 
Singapore 3. Fujitsu Develops Molecular Simulation Technology to Effectively Create New Drug Candidates. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-4 4. Fujitsu Develops Design Technology Using AI for Magnetic Material Geometries 5. High-efficiency Router-style Substrate Dividing Machine PBS-SH14A Released for Sale (Shinko Electric Industries) 6. Fujitsu Develops Network Control Technology to Minimize Impact of Cyberattacks on IoT Devices 7. Fujitsu Kyushu Systems Exhibits at Interop Tokyo 2018 8. Fujitsu Puts Blockchain to Use for “Virtuora DX” Data Distribution and Utilization Service 9. University of Tokyo’s RCAST, Fujitsu, and Kowa Successfully Create Promising New Compounds to Fight Drug-Resistant Cancer 10. Fujitsu-Developed “ABCI” System Takes 5th Place in TOP500, 8th in Green500 Supercomputer Rankings 11. Academic, Corporate Collaboration Succeeds at World’s Most Efficient Solar Power-Generated Hydrogen Production 12. Fujitsu Successfully Triples the Output Power of Gallium-Nitride Transistors 13. Fujitsu Technology to Solve Combinatorial Optimization Problems for Medium-Sized Drug Discovery 14. Fujitsu Laboratories and Waseda University Agree to Comprehensively Collaborate on Digital Annealer Research 15. Fujitsu Develops Technology to Improv Reliability of Data Distribution across Industries 16. Fujitsu Develops Novel Technology to Massively Boost Optical Data Transfer Throughput Using Existing Equipment 17. Fujitsu Begins Field Trials on High-Satisfaction Customer Experience Based on Psychological Analysis, Provided on the e-
Commerce Website of Himaraya 18. Fujitsu Signs IP License Agreements for Green Technologies with Kyushu University and University of the Ryukyus 19. Fujitsu Releases New Version of “COLMINA” Digital Solution for the Manufacturing Industry 20. The International Gymnastics Federation to Implement Fujitsu’s Judging Support System 21. Fujitsu Develops World’s First Single-Panel Antenna to Simultaneously Support Multiple 5G Communications 22. Fujitsu Releases Nocria X-Series AI Air Conditioner with Wi-Fi Adaptor 23. Fujitsu Launches Automated Antenna Design Tool for Low-Cost Design of IoT Devices 24. Fujitsu Develops Blockchain-based Exchange System for Electricity Consumers 25. Fujitsu Detects 13 Types of Potential Risks of Enterprise Blockchain System. 
Major Development Initiatives in FY 2018. 
Developing a System for Energy Trading Between Consumers on the Blockchain. 
We developed a system that allows consumers such as factories and stores to trade surplus energy amongst each other. Demand. 
Response (DR), an initiative which adjusts electric power usage through cooperation between electric utilities and consumers, has been attracting attention in recent years. However, it has been hard to control, and has therefore suffered from a low success rate.
Fujitsu addressed this problem by applying Blockchain technology to develop mechanisms that facilitate efficient coordination between consumers, which has resulted in a confirmed improvement of around 40% in the DR success rate.
 

 

 

 

 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-5. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Development of Top-Level Energy Efficient Products. 
Our Approach. 
As ICT grows more and more common, we expect there to be an increase in energy demand in proportion to the higher performance and higher-density integration of servers and other ICT products. Various countries and regions are also expanding their energy- related regulations for ICT products, and energy efficiency is taking on increasing social importance as a factor in energy label conformance and green procurement requirements.
Here at the Fujitsu Group, we believe that we should work to improve the energy performance of our products during their use, in order to reduce GHG emissions. As such, we will actively implement energy-saving technologies and continue working to further improve the energy efficiency of products. Through these efforts, we will work to develop products that consume less power during customer usage.
FY 2018 Performance and Results. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Last fiscal year (FY 2018 results)
Achieve top-level energy efficiency for 50% or more of new products. Made 67.9% of new products top-level energy efficient.
Actively Applying Energy-Saving Technologies. 
We have set division-specific targets for the achievement of top-level energy efficiency based on the number of product series we expect to develop in FY 2016-18. Applications of energy-saving technologies include new, high-efficiency microprocessors and power supplies, energy-saving displays, optimized energy-saving controls, and the strengthening of power management features.
In addition to these, we are actively pushing for the aggregation of LSIs, reductions in the numbers of components, and the implementation of eco-friendly devices.
Achieved Top-Level Energy Efficiency for 67.9% of New Products. 
As a result of applying and expanding energy-saving technologies in our servers, PCs, network devices, and imaging devices, we were able to achieve top-level energy efficiency for 67.9% of new products, against the 50% target value set in the Fujitsu Group. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII).
Working Toward Our Targets. 
In order to achieve the targets set in the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage Ⅸ), we will continue to advance our efforts to develop products with top-level energy efficiency, starting with the top products in each division. We will also implement advanced energy-saving technologies and expand their application to our products, as part of our cross-Group policy to improve energy efficiency.
Looking toward the future, we aim to push the development of advanced eco-friendly devices, which will contribute to revolutionary improvements in energy efficiency and allow early product development.
 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-6. 
Top-Level Energy Efficient Products. 
These are products, including our top products with regards to energy efficiency (first in the world or industry, best of the world or industry), that meet criteria equivalent to the upper ranks of external indicators and other benchmarks of energy efficiency.
 

 

 

 


Top-Level Energy Efficient Product Target Standards. 
Fujitsu sets targets that recognize top-level energy efficiency standards in each product area, compared with the overall market or with conventional products.
Main Target Standards *1 

*1 Standard values differ even for products within the same category, depending on product specifications.
*2 “Top-level” status for products evaluated under the “Ecology Guideline for the ICT Industry” is shown by the number of stars (multi-stage evaluation).
 

 

 


Standards Product Categories. 
ENERGY STAR criteria compliant PCs, displays, imaging equipment, etc.
Top-level Top Runner achievement rate under the Energy. 
Conservation Law Servers, storage systems, etc.
Industry-leading energy efficiency LSIs, products for specified fields, etc.
Industry’s highest-level battery life Smartphones. 
Reduction in power consumption as compared to prior products/prior performance Network products *2, electronic components, etc.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-7. 
Main Activities in FY 2018. 
Next-Generation ScanSnap Combines Energy and Resource Conservation. 
The ScanSnap iX1500 scans paper documents and stores them as electronic data. It is made to be as easy to use and easy to understand as possible, and aims to make people’s lives more “smart” and convenient. The various advantages that come from converting physical data into digital data can help revolutionize work styles and lifestyles, act as a foundation for work-style reform, and even help reduce the environmental burden of such data.
By reevaluating the scanning control process and improving power efficiency, we have been able to speed up the data reading process for this product by 20% (30 pages per minute; high-speed scanning of 60 sides), and reduce power consumption by approximately 15% as compared to previous models, all while maintaining compatibility with Wi-Fi at both 2.4GHz and 5GHz *3 frequency bands. We also added a large 4.3-inch, easy-to-read touch panel onto the product, in order to make it even easier to use and understand, and updated the software (which comes with a learning function) to allow for one-touch controls for everything from the actual scanning to the use of the files scanned.
In light of recent advancements in Internet availability, we have also decided to eliminate the use of data drives to install applications, opting to ask customers to download manuals, etc., from the Internet, and thereby reducing in-box supplemental items to a minimum. We also use recycled plastic sourced from plastic bottles in the components for this product. Through these and other efforts, we have worked to reduce the environmental burden on the component end as well.
 *3 Japan/North America/China Only 
 ScanSnap https://scansnap.fujitsu.com/jp/ 
 Case Studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/society/energyefficiency/casestudy/index.html. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-8. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Improving the Resource Efficiency and Resource Circulation of Products. 
Our Approach. 
In recent years, we have seen a rise in the risks that threaten the sustainability of companies and society in general, from environmental destruction due to resource shortages and excessive mining, to severe fluctuations in resource costs worldwide, and anxieties surrounding the supply of rare metals. Resource efficiency is thus taking on growing importance worldwide. Examples can be seen in the EU's designation of resource efficiency as a growth strategy and its establishment of the Resource Efficiency. 
Flagship Initiative. We believe it is important for us to make efficient use of the resources in the ICT products that we provide to customers. We have engaged in a 3R design that draws on the principles of reduce, reuse, and recycle, and have developed our products with technology that is effective in reducing the amount of resources we use. We are also making efforts to improve resource efficiency and reduce our environmental burden by designing products to be lighter and smaller, using recycled plastics, reducing the number of parts, enhancing ease of disassembly, and improving recyclability. Our goal is to offer such products so that they provide even the customer with benefits, whether it be by making these products smaller, more lightweight, or designing them so they take up less space.
FY 2018 Performance and Results. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Last Fiscal Year (FY 2018 results)
Promote eco design for resource saving and circulation and increase resource efficiency of newly developed products by 15% or more (Compared to FY 2014).
Improved by 25%
Improving the Resource Efficiency of New Products. 
In FY 2012, the Fujitsu Group created its own definition of resource efficiency, as the Group had previously not had a system that could comprehensively and quantitatively evaluate improvements in resource efficiency, and due to the fact that there were as of yet no public indices that could measure resource efficiency.
In FY 2018, we continued to use our indicators to evaluate products newly developed by Fujitsu *1, and worked to reduce product part quantities and reduce product size through smaller, thinner, and lighter parts and higher-density mountings.
 *1 Products newly developed by Fujitsu:
Excludes products for which resource efficiency is determined by customer specifications or standards.
Achieved 25% Improvement in Resource Efficiency. 
By reducing the size and weight of our PCs, smartphones, mission critical x86 servers, POS tenant devices, and mobile phone radio base stations, and more, we were able to achieve an improvement in resource efficiency of 25%, against the 15% target value we set in the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII).
 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-9. 
Working Toward Our Targets. 
To improve new product resource efficiency by at least 15%, Fujitsu will continue current initiatives, while expanding development of new lightweight, rigid materials and the use of recycled materials. We will also widely publicize the eco-friendliness of our products in order to expand sales.

Definition and Calculation of Resource Efficiency. 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Main Activities in FY 2018. 
The High-Performance SR-S352TR1/SR-S752TR1 Layer 2/Layer 3 Switch Combines Compact Size with Energy Conservation. 
The SR-S352TR1 and SR-S752TR1 is a 52-port (10G x 4 / 1G x 44 /
SFP/SFP+x4) Layer 2/Layer 3 network switch that comes equipped with a 10G interface. The Layer 2 switch in particular qualifies as a. 
Category A product under Japan's Energy Conservation Law.
The SR-S352TR1 and SR-S752TR1 are made with the latest ASIC switches, with their high performance and low power consumption, and as such require only one ASIC switch for features that previously required two ASIC switches. This, as well as the use of many components with low power consumption, allowed us to reduce power consumption during this product's use by 45% as compared to previous models).
All of the Ethernet ports, other than the SFP/SFP+ ports, also come with a power-saving Ethernet technology called Energy Efficient. 
Ethernet (EEE) *2 that reduces power consumption during standby (not sending or receiving data) by 42% (compared to previous products). The product also comes with a technology that can limit the speed with which the cooling fans spin in multiple stages, depending on the temperature of the surrounding environment, helping save even more energy.
SR-S752TR1. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-10. 
Previous models had the redundant power supply attached to the outside of the product (2U*2, including the body of the product).
By reevaluating the product substrate and the structure of the components, however, we were able to redesign the product with high-density mounting, and install a hot swappable redundant power supply on the 19-inch rack, 1 U *3 case. In doing so, we were able to make the product smaller as a whole. The new model is also only 12% heavier than previous models, even with the redundant power supply now located within the main body, and is a step forward with regard to making the product more lightweight. The product is also now completely free of lead, as we have opted for lead-free soldering to mount the electronic components onto the printed circuit board.
We also improved cooling efficiency within the case, and incorporated a front intake air panel/rear exhaust air flow system in order to allow more efficient cooling when installed within the same rack as the server. This allowed us to equip the cooling system on the rack without wasting space, thus allowing us to make the product smaller in general.
 *2 Compatible with IEEE802.3az, the IEEE standard specification.
*3 1U = The size of one unit in EIA specifications (height of 44.45 mm) 
 Case Studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/society/energyefficiency/casestudy/index.html. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-11. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Product Recycling. 
Our Approach. 
The Fujitsu Group's product recycling programs are based on Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) and Individual Producer. 
Responsibility (IPR). EPR holds that producers bear responsibility for products, from design and manufacturing to disposal and recycling. IPR holds that producers bear responsibility for their own products. IPR in particular has been a major challenge for the. 
Fujitsu Group as we expand our business globally. However, we believe that responding to this challenge, and that of EPR, in collaboration with industry associations and governments, will allow us to help create a recycling-minded society that meets the requirements and demands of all stakeholders.
The Fujitsu Group thus carries out recycling programs that comply with the laws and regulations of the various countries in which it operates.
In Japan, Fujitsu is certified under the Industrial Waste National Permit System, which is based on the Act on the Promotion of. 
Effective Utilization of Resources, and as such, accepts industrial waste and puts them through appropriate processing at Fujitsu recycling centers across Japan. We also try to do as much collection, reuse, and recycling as we can, even in countries where recycling is not obligatory. FY 2018 Performance and Results. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Last fiscal year (FY 2018 results)
Maintain over 90% resource reuse rate for business ICT equipment at Fujitsu recycling centers. Achieved a 91.7% resource reuse rate.
Promoting Recycling of ICT Products. 
The Fujitsu Group has built a recycling system that covers the entire country of Japan. We have worked steadily to implement. 
Extended Producer Responsibility, providing safe and secure services with high resource reuse rates in order to promote the recycling of ICT products. We have, at the same time, also ensured thorough traceability and security of these processes.
 

 

 

 

 


Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-12. 
Achieved a 90% or Higher Reuse Rate. 
We processed 3,436 tons of recycled ICT products (used ICT products for business applications) from corporate customers in Japan, and achieved a resource reuse rate of 91.7%. We have now also collected a total of 53,481 end-of-life PCs from individual customers.

Changes in Resource Reuse Rates of End-of-Life Business ICT Products (Japan) 

 

 

*1 Weight percent ratio of recycled parts and materials to end-of-life products.

Changes in Numbers of End-of-Life PCs Collected from Individual Customers (Japan) 

 

  Case Studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/society/recycle/casestudy/index.html. 
FY 2015 2016 2017 2018. 
Resource reuse rate*1 (%) 92.0 92.0 91.5 91.7. 
Amount processed (tons) 5,203 4,185 3,844 3,436. 
FY 2015 2016 2017 2018. 
End-of-life PCs collected (units) 69,801 61,435 59,144 53,481. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-13. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions and Boosting Energy Intensity at Our Business Sites. 
Our Approach. 
The Fujitsu Group considers the prevention of global warming an important issue. We have, therefore, formulated our medium- to long-term environmental vision, the FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision, and aim to eliminate all CO2 emissions from our business activities by 2050.
Among GHGs, our business sites (plants, offices and datacenters) primarily emit CO2 when energy (electricity, fuel oil, gas) is used, and perfluorocarbons (PFCs), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) during the semiconductor manufacturing processes. We are striving to decrease and control the volume of emission of these gases by complying with relevant laws and setting reduction targets.
Reducing CO2 Emitted During Energy Consumption. 
About 90% of the Fujitsu Group’s total GHG emissions arise from CO2 emissions due to energy consumption. Therefore, we continuously promote the following energy-saving measures to reduce CO2 emissions.
  Appropriate operation of equipment, improvement in management, and energy-saving measures focused on motive-power facilities (introduction of free cooling, inverters and energy saving equipment, fuel conversion, etc.)  Increasing efficiency by reviewing the manufacturing process (innovations in production, development of green production technology)  Maintaining appropriate room temperature for office air conditioning, saving electricity used in lighting and office automation equipment  Measuring energy consumption for visualization and promoting use of the data so collected. 
Reducing Emission of GHGs Other Than CO2. 
As for GHGs other than CO2, the Fujitsu Group mainly uses perfluorocarbons (PFCs), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) at the semiconductor divisions. We are taking continuous steps to switch to gases with lower global warming potential (GWP) and install equipment to remove harmful gases in our new and existing production lines.
FY 2018 Performance and Results. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Last fiscal year (FY 2018 results)
Reduce GHG emissions by 5% or more(compared to FY 2013) Reduced by 30.3%
Improve energy intensity by an annual average of 1% or more Improvement of 1.1% 


Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-14. 
Promoting Reduction in CO2 Emitted During Energy Consumption. 
We continue to invest in energy-saving equipment (introduction and upgrade of BAT*1 equipment, mainly for air conditioning and lighting) and ensure their appropriate operation at the facilities at all business sites. We are also streamlining our production processes, saving electricity used for air conditioning, lighting and automation in offices, making energy consumption visible, and leveraging measurement data.
For instance, we improved facility operations (2,300 tons) at the Tatebayashi System Center by controlling the number of air conditioners, reviewing their operation, suspending operation of devices and taking other measures. We also reviewed the appropriateness of the position of production devices (980 tons) at Fujitsu Interconnect Technologies Limited.
As a result of these efforts, the total emission of GHGs in FY 2018 was about 923,000 tons (specific consumption/sales revenue: 218,000 tons/100 million yen), which is 30.3% less in comparison to FY 2013. Although part of this decrease is attributable to transfer of business and other factors, we also reduced another 25,000 tons or so through measures implemented.
The energy intensity improved to an annual average improvement of 1.1% from FY 2016 to FY 2018.
 *1 BAT (Best Available Technologies): Usable state-of-the-art technologies to reduce GHGs 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 Case Studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/operation/activities/casestudy/index.html. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-15. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Improve Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) at Our Data Centers. 
Our Approach. 
Energy consumption at data centers is increasing due to the spread and growth of cloud computing, and society is paying greater attention to the environmental performance of data centers.
Data centers account for 25% of the CO2 emissions (FY 2018) for each business in the Fujitsu Group, and the annual rate of increase for CO2 emissions at our 34 main data centers in Japan and around the world has been around 2.0% over the five years from FY 2013 until FY 2018. Since data center CO2 emissions are expected to continue increasing along with the growth of cloud business, it is the social responsibility of the Fujitsu Group to work toward having environmentally-friendly data centers. At the same time, it has also become an important topic to look at from a long-term perspective in terms of enhancing our business infrastructure.
The Fujitsu Group has designated roughly 80% of all Group data centers (relative to the area of server rooms) for this activity*1, and is working to achieve better environmental performance.
 *1 Data centers for the activity. 
Globally, data centers with area of 1,000m2 or more, or data centers for which business divisions have requested for inclusion.
FY 2018 Performance and Results 

*2 PUE (Power Usage Effectiveness):
An index for power usage effectiveness at data centers. Expresses overall power consumption at data centers as a value divided by the power consumption of servers and other ICT devices. The closer the number is to 1.0, the greater the efficiency.
Actions to Achieve the Goal. 
Activities to improve PUE are under way at data centers in Japan and around the world, based on the Fujitsu Environmental Action. 
Plan. With effects from the global heat wave in FY 2018 also a factor, we were unable to reach the target improvement rate with the scope and speed of improvements thus far, but improvements have consistently been at least 1% each year. Working mainly on improving the efficiency of air conditioning, energy use has been made more efficient and power usage by facilities and ICT has been continuously reduced thanks to fine-tuning type operational improvements such as longer hours using outdoor air and maximum use of free cooling, plus the implementation of revolutionary AI technologies.
We are also working to expand our use of renewable energies to make progress toward the “carbon-free society” sought under the. 
Paris Agreement.*3 
*3 Paris Agreement:
A new framework to counteract global warming by reducing greenhouse gases through international cooperation, with participation by over 190 developed and developing countries. The agreement entered into effect in November 2016.
 

Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Last Fiscal Year (FY 2018 results)
Improve PUE*2 at data centers by 8% or more.(compared to FY 2013) PUE 1.59 - Improvement of 6.7％
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-16. 
PUE values and calculation methods. 
PUE Value PUE calculation method, other. 
Range: 1.31 to 3.04. 
No. of data centers: 34  Apply The Green Grid  Work to implement improvements using DCMM. 
Examples of Initiatives in FY 2018. 
Driving Improvements by Enhancing Information Linkage with Overseas Data Centers. 
We developed the *4 Data Center Evaluation Tool which analyzes whether the cooling energy for ICT devices at data centers is being managed efficiently.
This initiative had been conducted before at data centers in Japan, but in FY 2018 it was rolled out to main data centers overseas, and optimization proposals were made. Additionally, information is being shared on company intranet websites and face-to-face meetings are also being held in order to connect and bolster improvement activities with overseas locations.
To facilitate smoother improvements, we are planning to compile evaluation methods and expertise gained at each site into guidelines which we plan to share with the Fujitsu Group.
 *4 Data Center Evaluation Tool: A tool that uses analysis based on heat and airflow balance from the structural and equipment specifications of data centers to calculate potential energy reduction amounts, as well as optimization proposals for PUE improvements and the related effects. 

 

 

 

 

Expanding Use of Renewable Energy. 
We are also currently working to shift in stages toward the use of renewable energies to supply the power used in our data centers, based on our in-house environmental vision for the creation of a carbon-free society which we published in May 2017.
Implementations are particularly progressing in overseas locations where green power procurement is possible. Renewable energy now accounts for 19% of all the power used at our 34 main data centers in Japan and around the world.
Most of those are overseas data centers, and we plan to continue to actively increase usage of renewable energies at overseas data centers.
  Case Studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/operation/pue/casestudy/index.html. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-17. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Expand the Use of Renewable Energy. 
Our Approach. 
The popularization and widespread use of renewable energy is becoming increasingly necessary as a way of addressing global warming, securing stable energy supplies through the diversification of our energy sources, and as an energy-based foundation for economic growth.
The Fujitsu Group has established an environmental vision aimed at realizing a decarbonized society. The main pillars for this vision are a dedication to energy conservation, and the active implementation of renewable energy. To achieve this vision, we have set new quantitative targets in the Environmental Action Plan, and are actively promoting the installation of solar power generation equipment at our business sites, as well as the use, purchase, and expansion of green power (electric power generated with 100% renewable energy) at overseas business sites, where costs are relatively reasonable.
FY 2018 Performance and Results. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Last fiscal year (FY 2018 results)
Expand the renewable energy usage rate to 6% or higher. 8.6%
Usage Rate Target Increased to 8.6% 
The amount of renewable energy we used in FY 2018 was approximately 183 GWh, due to our purchase of green energy, solar power generation through solar panels, etc. This made up 8.6% of our entire energy consumption, and meant we achieved the target value set in the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII).
We will continue to work toward the implementation of renewable energy in both our domestic and overseas business offices, in order to further our purchase and usage of renewable energy.
 

 

 

 

 


Fujitsu Finland Ltd. Green Power Certificate. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-18 

 

 

 

 

 

 Case Studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/operation/renewable-energy/casestudy/index.html. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-19. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Drive Activities to Reduce CO2 Emissions in the Supply Chain. 
Our Approach. 
In addition to reducing our own emissions, as a green procurement initiative the Fujitsu Group has also been requesting its suppliers to act toward reducing their own CO2 emissions in order to help contain global warming. As a result, all of our main suppliers have undertaken efforts to reduce their CO2 emissions. Starting in FY 2016, we have also been expanding these efforts further upstream in the supply chain by including efforts by the suppliers of those companies (secondary suppliers from the perspective of the Fujitsu Group) in our requests.
We expect that having the supply chain as a whole work toward reducing emissions can produce even greater reduction effects (synergies), while also expanding the network of these activities through the supply chain to cover an even wider area spreading beyond national boundaries. Through efforts such as these, the Fujitsu Group hopes to help create a carbon-free future society.
FY 2018 Performance and Results. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action. 
Plan (Stage VIII) Last fiscal year (FY 2018 results)
Drive Activities to Reduce CO2 Emissions in the Supply Chain. 
Requested emission reductions action by secondary suppliers (46,000 companies or more) via main suppliers of the Fujitsu. 
Group (approximately 1,500 companies)
Requesting and Supporting the Expansion of Activities to Secondary Suppliers. 
The Fujitsu Group communicated requests to its main suppliers who account for at least 98% of the Group's procurement volume to engage in activities to reduce their CO2 emissions, and to expand these efforts to also include their own suppliers (the Fujitsu. 
Group's secondary suppliers). We also conducted our own environmental survey to ascertain the activity status of these suppliers.
As a reference for their future activities, we then provided suppliers who responded to the survey with feedback in the form of a report that analyzed survey responses to show trends in emissions reduction activities, while also requesting further activities and expansion to the activities of their own suppliers.
As of the end of FY 2018 only 18.9% of suppliers responded that they had requested their own suppliers to engage in emissions reduction activities, but this still amounted to a total of at least 46,000 secondary suppliers receiving such requests. 

 

 

 

 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-20. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Providing guideline for activities for reducing CO2 emissions. 
In order to facilitate the spread of CO2 emissions reduction activities throughout the entirety of our supply chain, the Fujitsu Group produced an original set of explanatory materials and began providing these to suppliers. The purpose of these materials was not only to give suppliers a greater understanding of the importance of these activities taking place in the supply chain, but also to serve as something they could use to request and assist such activities amongst their own suppliers. The materials have had a strong response, including over 1,200 accesses since they were posted on our website at the end of November 2017. To fulfill our responsibilities as a global enterprise, the Fujitsu Group will continue to think about what must be done to contain global warming and will continue to take action.
 "Guideline for activities for reducing CO2 emissions" can be downloaded from the following sites.
 Japan https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/procurement/material/green/  Global https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/procurement/green/ 

 

 

 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-21. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Examples of initiatives in FY 2018. 
Starting activities to reduce CO2 emissions together with Suppliers. 
Without stopping at providing customers with the "Guidance on activities for reducing CO2 emissions," the Fujitsu Group also began sending its employees with extensive practical experience in CO2 reduction activities to visit factories of Suppliers and engage in problem-solving efforts together with them. Utilizing the "diagnostic for CO2 reduction potential"*1 which incorporates Fujitsu's expertise, they are engaging in activities to help Suppliers reduce their CO2 emissions. These efforts are reducing the CO2 emissions from materials procurement in the Fujitsu Group, while also helping reduce environmental impact throughout the supply chain as a whole.

Supplier collaboration example. 
Collaborative efforts began on reducing CO2 in the production process for products at one of the Fujitsu Group's main Suppliers,
Atago Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Based in the city of Midori in Japan's Gunma Prefecture, Atago Manufacturing produces air blowers, heat exchangers, and other equipment.
In order to get an understanding of the circumstances at Atago Manucacturing's production plant, their people in charge worked with experts from Fujitsu to conduct a diagnostic for CO2 reduction potential. The results of the diagnostic revealed that the production facilities had high potential for CO2 reduction. Efforts are currently under way to decide on reduction measures through mutual consultations, and subsequently achieve them.
 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-22. 
Supplier testimonial (Noboru Otomo, Managing Director, Atago Manufacturing)
Since our company has trouble visualizing the cost-effectiveness of our environmental initiatives, we understood them from a social perspective but had been slow to act and hardly accomplished any real progress. Speaking with Fujitsu, we were able to get a logical understanding, with the effects also clearly expressed numerically. As a result, we decided to go ahead and work together with them. If we can also reduce manufacturing costs even a little by focusing in on our high energy cost electrical furnaces, we will be killing two birds with one stone.
 *1 Diagnostic for CO2 reduction potential This is a diagnostic method using the Energy Conservation Measure Implementation Status Diagnostic Sheet which reflects the Fujitsu Group's in-house practical expertise, based on the CO2 Reduction Potential Diagnostic Guidelines (Ministry of the Environment). In four stages it determines the implementation status for 128 items pertaining to eight types of equipment that emit large amounts of CO2 at production plants (boilers, refrigeration units, air conditioners, production equipment, compressors, electrical equipment, lighting, and plumbing). The results can be used to calculate reduction potential and at the same time point the way toward reduction measures that can be effective.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-23. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Reduce CO2 Emissions from Transportation. 
Our Approach. 
With Group companies and business sites worldwide, and materials/parts sourced from a significant number of business partners, reducing CO2 emissions accompanying logistics and transportation activities is a priority for the Fujitsu Group.
The Fujitsu Group has worked toward its targets for reducing CO2 emissions from domestic transport. Since the establishment of our Environmental Action Plan (Stage VII), we have expanded the scope of reductions to transport within regions overseas, as well as international transport. Stage VIII also drives more streamlined, efficient global logistics. The Group is working toward lowering the environmental impact of our logistics throughout the supply chain, for instance by distributing copies of the Fujitsu Group. 
Green Logistics Procurement Directions to our business partners , to strengthen our partnerships and work toward our efforts together . Lastly, as an initiative in our overall distribution process, the Group is working toward the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) in packaging products and materials/parts.
  Fujitsu Group Green Logistics Procurement Direction Edition1.0 [In Japanese] https://www.fujitsu.com/downloads/JP/archive/imgjp/jeco/products/logistics_guide.pdf. 
FY 2018 Performance and Results. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan(Stage VIII) Last fiscal year (FY 2018 results)
Reduce by over 2% on average every year CO2 emissions per sales*1 from transport (compared to previous fiscal year). 6.2% *1 Net sales: Excludes the impact of exchange rates. 
Reduced by 6.2% Compared to Previous FY; FY 2018 Results Met Targets. 
The amount of CO2 emissions produced from transportation in FY 2018 was 69,000 tons. Of that amount, 22,000 tons of CO2 were emitted during transport in Japan, while 47,000 tons were emitted during transport overseas and transport in foreign regions. The amount of CO2 emissions per sales was reduced by 6.2% compared to FY 2017, which means that the Group succeeded in meeting its targets for FY 2018.
 

 

 

 

 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-24. 
Initiatives in FY 2018. 
Promoting Modal Shifts. 
Fujitsu Technology Solutions GmBH in Germany has been working to streamline their logistics, and are actively promoting a modal shift from air shipment to ocean shipments for international transport. Group companies in Japan have also switched from trucks to railways for transport between plants, and have succeeded in reducing their transport-related CO2 emissions.
Reducing Transport Distances. 
Fujitsu managed to cut down the transport distance for the export of laptop computers*2 to overseas Group companies, by switching the airport for export from Narita International Airport to Kansai International Airport. In doing so, Fujitsu managed to reduce their transport-related CO2 emissions. They also switched from route-based delivery to direct delivery for the delivery of products to major clients, and in doing so cut down on the transport distance for their products.
 *2 Manufactured in Shimane Prefecture (Shimane Fujitsu Limited)
Reducing the Amount of Transportation CO2 Emissions through Various Measures for Increasing Efficiency. 
Under the “Green Logistics Case Studies handbook of Transportation CO2 Reductions” created in FY 2016, Group companies in Japan and overseas actively engaged in efforts to reduce the amount of CO2 emissions produced through transport. This included revising transportation plans, formulating measures for increased loading rate, and revising packaging materials.
  Case Studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/operation/logistics/casestudy/index.html. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-25. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Reducing the Amount of Water Used. 
Our Approach. 
The risk of a global water shortage is on the rise, due to such factors as climate change, the destruction of forests, and the economic growth and population boom in emerging and developing countries. Such a water shortage is a risk for companies as well, since it may very well affect the survival of their businesses. As such, it is important for us to recycle and reduce the amount of water we use.
Since the Fujitsu Group uses particularly large amounts of water in the manufacture of semiconductors and printed circuit boards, we believe it is necessary to reduce our water consumption in these areas especially. In addition to our general water conservation efforts, we have also worked to reuse and recirculate water, through methods such as pure water recycling and the reuse of rainwater. Under the Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII), we have strengthened our efforts to use water resources even more effectively than in the past.
FY 2018 Performance and Results. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Last fiscal year (FY 2018 results)
Reduce water consumption by 1% in total (compared to FY 2013 128,000 m3).
Cumulative Water Usage: 2.6% reduction (326,800 m3 reduction compared to FY 2013) 326,800 m3 Cumulative Reduction in Water Usage from FY 2013. 
The policies we established in FY 2018 to reduce water usage include reducing the amount of water used in coating and cleaning processes and optimizing the water supply for our scrubbers. These policies and various others were implemented at each business site, plant, etc., so that we could make more efficient use of our water resources. As a result, we were able to reduce our total water usage by 326,800 m3 (FY 2016: 139,300 m3 / FY 2017: 108,200 m3 / FY 2018: 79,300 m3), which is significantly more than the target value of 128,000 m3 that was set in the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII).
The amount of water we used in FY 2018 was 13.83 million m3 (output level per sales amount: 349.9 m3/million yen), an 11.0% reduction as compared to FY 2017. Recycled water also comprised 49.8% of our total water usage—a 0.2% increase from FY 2017.
 

 

 

 

  Case Studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/operation/water/casestudy/index.html. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-26. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Reducing Chemical Substances Emissions. 
Our Approach. 
Here at the Fujitsu Group, we manage approximately 1,300 types of chemical substances, in order to prevent the risks associated with the use of toxic chemical substances (health issues, pollution of the natural environment, etc.).
We operate a chemical information system called “FACE,” which we use to register and monitor chemicals at every site, manage. 
Safety Data Sheet (SDS), control income and expenditures using purchasing data and inventory data, and boost our level of management and efficiency with respect to chemical usage.
FY 2018 Performance and Results. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Last fiscal year (FY 2018 results)
Reduce chemical pollutant (PRTR) release to less than the average level of. 
FY 2012-2014 (20.7 tons). PRTR: 9.3 tons. 
Achieved Current PRTR Substance Emission Target. 
In FY 2018, we were able to limit our Group-wide chemical substance emissions to 9.3 tons of PRTR, which is under the target value set in the Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 Case Studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/operation/chemical/casestudy/index.html. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-27. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Limiting the Amount of Waste Generated. 
Our Approach. 
The Fujitsu Group considers wastes as valuable resources and has continued to work toward recovering resources from its waste or using the waste as a source of energy. In Japan, our volume of final waste disposal has been decreasing every year. However, the environment surrounding waste disposal remains challenging as building new disposal sites is difficult and the existing ones have limited lifespans.
We are actively working to install new equipment and reuse waste with the objective to reduce the amounts of waste acid, waste alkali and sludge generated in the production of semiconductors and printed circuit boards. These efforts are in line with Japan’s. 
Fundamental Law for Establishing a Sound Material-Cycle Society to (1) reduce waste generated, (2) reuse it, (3) recycle it and (4) recover heat from it.
We have also established the company-wide Standards for Consignment of Waste Disposal to properly dispose waste, based on the. 
Waste Management and Public Cleansing Law.
On-site Audits for Outsourcing Contractors. 
We conclude contracts with waste processing companies. These contracts are common for the whole Fujitsu Group. We conduct on- site audits of the waste processing companies with which we have contracts to periodically confirm that waste is being appropriately processed. If multiple business sites have contracts with the same processing company, then a representative business site conducts on-site audits based on the representative auditing regulations. In other cases, each business site individually conducts audits to confirm that waste processing is appropriate.
FY 2018 Performance and Results. 
Targets of the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) Last Fiscal Year (FY 2018 results)
Reduce the amount of waste generated to less than the average level of FY 2012-2014 (25,568 tons） 19,056 tons. 
Promoting Measures to Reduce Waste Generation and Plastic Waste. 
At our Nagano Plant, we had been subcontracting the processing of organic renewal effluents as industrial waste to a waste processing company. However, we can now process this waste in-house and have reduced effluents by 206 ton/year.
Such efforts have enabled us to achieve our target by reducing the amount of waste generated to 19,056 tons (generation rate/sales revenue: 0.48 tons/100 million yen).
From 2018, China has prohibited the import of waste plastic. This is gradually turning waste plastic, which was being sold as a valuable product until now, into industrial waste. To deal with this issue, we are striving to reduce plastic waste by taking various measures, such as collaborating with external reuse companies to partially reuse parts trays used at the time of delivery of procured parts.
 

 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-2-28. 

 

 

 

 

 

Waste Generated, Effective Use, and Final Disposal (tons) 

 

 

 

 

 

 
*1 Other includes general waste, wastepaper, septic tank sludge, cinders, rubble, textile waste, animal and plant residue, and infectious waste 
 Case Studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/operation/waste/casestudy/index.html. 
Waste Type Waste Generated Effective. 
Utilization Final Disposal. 
Sludge 4,015 3,963 52. 
Waste oil 1,023 987 35. 
Waste acid 3,211 3,211 0. 
Waste alkali 3,848 3,597 251. 
Waste plastic 3,055 3,005 50. 
Waste wood 789 777 12. 
Waste metal 477 477 0. 
Glass/ceramic waste 386 383 3. 
Other（*1） 2,252 1,952 299. 
Total 19,056 18,353 703. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-1. 
Environmental Data Environmental Accounting and Environmental Liabilities. 
To promote environmental management, the Fujitsu Group introduced environmental accounting in FY 1998. We evaluate the efficiency of our environmental protection activities by monitoring required costs and benefits of these activities. Through this process, we have clarified issues and promoted sharing of the results.
Basic Environmental Accounting Elements in FY 2018 
 To clarify our corporate stance through disclosure of information to stakeholders  To implement long-term, continuous environmental measures  To raise the efficiency of investment in environmental protection measures  To energize environmental protection activities. 
Purpose of Introducing the Environmental Accounting System 
 Applicable period. 
April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019  Accounting coverage. 
Fujitsu and its major consolidated subsidiaries worldwide *1  Calculation basis for environmental protection costs  Accounting method for depreciation and amortization:
Depreciation and amortization expenses for investments are included in expenses using straight line depreciation (with no residual value) based on a useful life of 5 years. The useful life of 5 years was chosen based on the average length of the actual period from the introduction of environmental facilities to their implementation of repairs and upgrades.
 Basis for recording composite costs:
In regard to composite costs, in which environmental protection costs are coupled with other costs, the Fujitsu Group records only the portion corresponding to environmental protection in conformance with the Environmental. 
Accounting Guidelines 2005 issued by the Japanese Ministry of Environment.
 Calculation basis for the economic benefits of environmental protection measures  Scope of benefits in environmental accounting:
The Fujitsu Group records the actual benefits and estimated benefits (risk avoidance benefit and deemed benefit) of reducing environmental impact related to the following items.
 Benefits of reducing environmental impact related to resources used in business activities  Benefits of reducing environmental impact related to environmental loads and waste emissions resulting from business activities  Benefits of reducing environmental impact related to goods and services produced by business activities  Benefits of reducing environmental impact related to transportation and other activities  Investment benefit materialization period and basis:
The accounting period for actual economic benefits has been aligned with the depreciation and amortization period for investments (60 months). However, the accounting period for economic benefits derived from reducing personnel costs related to the environmental management system is 12 months, in line with the main thrust of the environmental management system, which is reviewed every year.
With regard to estimated economic benefits, the accounting period for economic benefits derived from capital investment is the same as the depreciation and amortization period (60 months) for actual economic benefits.
Benefits corresponding to a given fiscal year, such as the amount of contribution to environmental protection and. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-2 the avoidance of operational losses, are recorded only for that fiscal year. The basis for accounting for economic benefits is as follows:  Contribution of environmental protection activities to added value derived from production activities. 
The Fujitsu Group recognizes support provided by environmental protection activities to production activities as an economic benefit. Accordingly, the amount of contribution is determined by multiplying the added value derived from production activities by the ratio of the maintenance and operation cost for environmental protection facilities to the total cost of each site.
Contribution = Added value x Maintenance and operation cost for environmental protection facilities / total facility cost  Avoidance of operational loss at business site due to non-compliance with laws and regulations. 
The Fujitsu Group recognizes the avoidance of operation loss as the amount of loss that is avoided in the event of the materialization of risk arising from neglect to make upfront investments needed to comply with laws and regulations. The number of operational loss days is determined based on the size of investment related to environment, but it must not exceed three days.
Benefit = Added value / Operational days x Operational loss days  Benefit of public relations activities. 
This benefit is calculated by converting publicity efforts related to environmental protection activities, in newspapers, magazines and TV, into an advertising cost.
Benefit = Cost of advertising through newspapers, magazines and TV x Number of advertisements ran and programs broadcast.
 R&D benefits. 
The Fujitsu Group calculates the amount of additional earnings resulting from the contributions of R&D achievements for environmental protection purposes, such as Super Green Products and environmental solutions.
 *1 Major consolidated subsidiaries worldwide: FUJITSU ISOTEC LIMITED, FUJITSU IT PRODUCTS LIMITED, Fujitsu I-Network Systems Limited, Fujitsu Interconnect Technologies Limited, Ecolity Service Limited, FDK CORPORATION, FUJITSU OPTICAL COMPONENTS LIMITED, FUJITSU KASEI LIMITED, FUJITSU CLIENT COMPUTING LIMITED, Fujitsu Laboratories Limited, FUJITSU CONNECTED TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED, FUJITSU COMPONENT LIMITED, Shimane Fujitsu Limited, FUJITSU PERIPHERALS LIMITED, SHINKO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES CO., LTD., Fujitsu Telecom Networks Limited, TRANSTRON Inc., PFU Limited, FUJITSU FRONTECH LIMITED, MIE FUJITSU SEMICONDUCTOR LIMITED, AIZU FUJITSU SEMICONDUCTOR WAFER SOLUTION LIMITED, AIZU FUJITSU SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING LIMITED (currently ON Semiconductor Aizu Co., Ltd.), Fujitsu Network Communications Inc., FUJITSU TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS (HOLDING) B.V.

The Fujitsu Group also aggregates data on R&D costs and benefits from environmental solutions offered by subsidiaries other than those shown above. However, the date is aggregated solely for environmental solutions costs and benefits, so the relevant subsidiaries are not included in the scope of disclosure for major consolidated subsidiaries.
 

 

 

 


Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-3. 
FY 2018 Environmental Accounting Results. 
Breakdown of results (Investments and costs) (billion yen) 
Fiscal 2018 Breakdown of Results (Capital investments, Expenses, Economic benefits)
Item Main Areas Covered. 
Capital. 
Investment (billion yen)
Expenses (billion yen)
Economic. 
Benefit (billion yen)
Business area costs/benefits. 
Pollution prevention costs/benefits. 
Air/water pollution prevention, etc.
0.32 (-1.7) 5.09 (+0.54) 6.14 (-1.54)
Global environmental protection costs/benefits. 
Global warming prevention, saving energy, etc.
0.27 (+0.02) 2.20 (-0.17) 1.15 (-0.32)
Resource circulation costs/benefits. 
Waste disposal, efficient utilization of resources, etc.
0.0 (-0.01) 2.24 (-0.04) 10.38 (-0.60)
Upstream/downstream costs/benefits. 
Collection, recycling, reuse, and proper disposal of products, etc.
0.0 (-0.01) 0.62 (-0.22) 0.27 (-0.09)
Administration costs/benefits. 
Provision and operation of environmental management systems, environmental education of employees, etc.
0.03 (-0.0) 2.14 (-0.10) 0.31 (+0.01)
R&D costs/benefits. 
R&D on products and solutions that contribute to environmental protection, etc.
0.15 (+0.06) 29.65 (＋1.35) 50.13 (+1.52)
Social activity costs Donation to, and support for, environmental groups, etc.
0.0 (＋0.0) 0.04 (+0.01) -
Environmental remediation costs/benefits. 
Restoration and other measures related to soil and groundwater contamination, etc.
0.05 (+0.05) 0.08 (+0.04) 0.0 (＋0.0)
Total 0.82 (-1.59) 42.05 (+1.41) 68.37 (-1.02) 
 Numbers in parentheses indicate increase or decrease in comparison with the previous year  Due to rounding, the figures in columns may not add up to the totals shown  Amounts shown as “0.0” include amounts for which the value was smaller than the display units used. 
Costs and Economic Benefits in FY 2018. 
The results of environmental accounting for FY 2018 showed expenses of 42.1 billion yen (14% increase year on year) and economic benefits (calculated by our original estimating method) of 68.4 billion yen (10% decrease year on year), indicating that expenses increased, and economic benefits decreased in comparison to the previous fiscal year.
Also, our capital investments dropped by 0.8 billion yen (16% increase year on year) due to large-scale water pollution prevention measures implemented in FY 2017.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-4. 
Environmental Liabilities. 
The Fujitsu Group, in properly forecasting expected future environmental liabilities and communicating our soundness and stance of not deferring environmental liabilities, has recorded a liability of 4.33 billion yen in soil-pollution cleanup costs, high-level polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) waste disposal costs, and asbestos processing costs during facilities demolition. This total is the amount we calculate, as of the end of FY 2018, to be necessary for the Fujitsu Group in Japan to carry out these tasks in the next fiscal year and beyond.
Past Records up to FY 2017. 
Past records of our environmental accounting up to FY 2017 are included in the Sustainability Report.
  Fujitsu Group Sustainability Report https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/resources/reports/sustainabilityreport/ 


Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-5. 
Environmental Data Material Balance. 
INPUT. 
Stage Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018. 
Development /
Design. 
Planning /
Design. 
Raw Materials. 
Metal ktons 18 25 16 15. 
Plastic ktons 9 11 9 7. 
Others ktons 15 15 13 12. 
Chemical Substances *1. 
VOC ktons 1.3 1.4 1.3 1.1. 
PRTR ktons 9.7 9.8 9.5 10.4. 
Water. 
Water usage Mm3 15.83 16.87 15.54 13.83. 
Energy. 
Total PJ 18.37 20.38 19.25 1735. 
Purchased electricity GWh 1,680 1,899 1,800 1,614. 
Heavy oil, kerosene, etc. kL 8,590 10,118 10,100 6,822. 
LPG、LNG tons 3,454 3,059 2,954 2,222. 
Natural gas, city gas Mm3 29.92 29.99 29.76 28.01. 
District heating and cooling TJ 42 43 43 41. 
Distribution / Sales. 
Energy. 
Fuel (light oil, gasoline, etc.) PJ 1.50 1.46 1.18 1.02. 
Usage. 
Energy. 
Electricity GWh (PJ) 7,898 (77.64) 8,111 (80.87) 6,680 (66.60) 7,356 (73.34)
Collection / Reuse /
Recycling. 
Resources recycling rate ％ 94.5 92 91.5 91.7. 
Amount processed tons 5,203 4,185 3,844 3,436. 

 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-6. 
OUTPUT 

*1 Substances that qualify as both a PRTR targeted chemical and a VOC are included under "VOCs" only.
 
Stage Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018. 
Development /
Design. 
Planning /
Design. 
Raw Materials. 
CO2 emissions ktons-
CO2 630 640 520 410. 
Chemical Substances *1. 
VOC tons 212 245 228 178. 
PRTR tons 10 11 10 9. 
Atmospheric Release. 
Total GHG emissions ktons 876 1,229 1,137 955. 
CO2 ktons-
CO2 786 1122 1040 895. 
GHG other than CO2 (PFCs, HFCs, SF6, NF3, others) ktons 90 107 97 60. 
NOx ktons 103 104 63 32. 
SOx ktons 108 30 11 4. 
Water Discharge 合計 km3 14,080 15,280 14,610 12,650. 
BOD tons 397 391 290 270. 
COD tons 160 179 94 55. 
Waste. 
Amount of Waste. 
Generated ktons 20.7 22.4 21.9 19.0. 
Thermal recycling volume ktons 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.0. 
Material recycling volume ktons 14.9 15.6 16.0 14.3. 
Disposal volume ktons 1.1 2.1 1.1 0.7. 
Distribution /
Sales. 
Atmospheric Release. 
CO2 ktons-
CO2 100 99 80 69. 
Usage. 
Atmospheric Release. 
CO2 ktons-
CO2 4,410 4,570 3,460 3,650. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-7. 
Environmental Data GHG Emissions Report Based on GHG Protocol Standards. 
Indicator FY2015 FY2016 *1 FY2017 *2 FY2018. 
Upstream (Scope3) [ktons] 
Purchased goods and services 2,317 2,432 2,169 1,840. 
Capital goods 82 31 13 6. 
Fuel and energy-related activities not included in. 
Scopes 1 and 2 68 76 72 71. 
Transportation and distribution (Upstream) 102 99 80 69. 
Waste generated in operations 8 8 7 5. 
Business travel 107 107 86 93. 
Employee commuting 76 87 69 68. 
Leased assets (Upstream) 123 373 288 281. 
Reporting company (Scope1,2) [ktons] 
Direct emissions 189 208 198 147. 
Indirect emissions from energy sources 686 1,021 939 *3 912 *4 808 *3 771 *4. 
Downstream (Scope 3) [ktons] 
Transportation and distribution (Downstream) N/A *5 N/A N/A N/A. 
Processing of sold products 23 21 27 23. 
Use of sold products 4,407 4,566 3,460 3,649. 
End-of-life treatment of sold products N/A N/A N/A N/A. 
Leased assets (Downstream) N/A N/A N/A N/A. 
Franchises N/A N/A N/A N/A. 
Investment N/A N/A N/A N/A *1 Estimate on not applicable and other items  Transportation and distribution (downstream): 5.4 ktons. Amount of emissions accompanying movement when individual customers purchase personal computers etc.
 Other items: 311 tons. Emissions due to movements of visitors to the exhibition.
*2 Estimate on not applicable and other items  Transportation and distribution (downstream): 6 ktons.
 Disposal of products sold: 1 ktons.
*3 Emissions from location standards. Market standard is 912 ktons *4 Emissions from location standards. Market standard is 771 ktons.
*5 N/A : Not Applicable. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-8. 
Environmental Data Environmental Performance Data Calculation Standards  Applicable Period: April 1, 2018 – March 31, 2019  Scope: Fujitsu and the Fujitsu Group (For details, refer to the List of Companies Covered by the Report on Environmental. 
Activities) 
Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/approach/plan/
Target Item Indicator Unit Calculation Method. 
Our Society. 
Achieve top-level energy efficiency for 50% or more of the new products.
The percentage of new products that are top-level energy efficient %
The percentage top-level*1 energy efficient products with respect to the number of product series that are expected to be developed *1 Top-level energy efficiency: Achieve an upper level benchmark based on outside indicators, etc., in energy efficiency, on par with “top-runner” products (first in the world or industry, top of the world or industry, etc.)
Promote eco design for resource saving and circulation and increase resource efficiency of newly developed products by 15% or more.
Rate of improvement of resource efficiency of new products ％
The average rate of improvement of resource efficiency (versus FY 2014) of products*. * Hardware products, under the Fujitsu Brand, newly developed in FY 2016-2018. Excludes products not designed by Fujitsu (OEM products) and products designed under customer specifications. * Refer to “Improving resource efficiency of new products” for the resource efficiency calculation method.
Maintain over 90% resource reuse rate of business ICT products at Fujitsu recycling centers.
Resource reuse rate of business ICT products ％
Based on the calculation method provided by JEITA, recycled components and resources as a percentage of the weight of used products processed in Japan. Excludes collected waste other than used electronic products. 
Our Business. 
Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 5% or more compared to FY 2013.
GHG emissions tons CO2. 
CO2 emissions: Σ[(Electricity, fuel oil, gas, and district heating and cooling annual usage) x CO2 conversion factor for each type of energy*] * CO2 conversion factor: The factor is based on the Electric Power Council for a Low Carbon Society. In FY 2013, the conversion factor for electricity was 0.570 tons CO2/MWh and in FY 2018 its was 0.497 tons CO2/MWh.
GHG emissions other than CO2: Annual emissions of HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3 at three semiconductor plants (Mie Fujitsu Semiconductor Limited, Aizu Fujitsu Semiconductor Wafer Solution Limited and Aizu Fujitsu Semiconductor Manufacturing Limited) Σ[Annual emissions for each type of gas*1 x Global warming potential for each gas*2] *1 Based on the calculation method used by the industries of electric and electronics: Amount of each gas used (or purchased) x Reactant consumption rate x Removal efficiency, etc. *2 Global Warming Potential (GWP): IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) Fourth Assessment Report “Climate Change 2007”
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-9. 
Percentage reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions ％ reduction (Total GHG emissions in FY 2013 – Total GHG emissions in the fiscal year) / Total GHG emissions in FY 2013 x 100. 
Improve PUE of our major data centers (DC) by 8% or more compared to FY 2013.
Rate of improvement of PUE ％
PUE = Σ(Total DC energy consumption) ÷ Σ(Total IT device energy consumption) Σ: Combined total energy of the 34 main DCs Rate of improvement (%) - (Base fiscal year PUE - PUE for the current fiscal year) ÷ Base fiscal year PUE x 100 Base fiscal year: FY 2013. 
Improve energy intensity by an average of 1% or more each year.
Rate of improvement of energy intensity ％
The improvement rate, year on year, for each business site’s energy rate index is a weighted average of the proportion to the site’s overall energy usage. These values are added to calculate our total improvement rate. Σ[% improvement year-on-year in each business site’s rate index x wt% proportion of overall energy usage] Target business sites: Japan (energy management plants specified under the Act on the Rational Use, etc., of Energy), UK and Australia offices. 
Increase usage of renewable energy to at least 6%. Renewable energy usage rate ％
Power generated by the company through renewable energy (solar, wind, hydraulic, biomass, geothermal, etc.) or purchased from an outside source ÷ total amount of electric power used. 
Reduce CO2 emissions per sales from transport by an average of 2% or more.
CO2 emissions per sales from transport tons/100 million yen. 
Transport CO2 emissions / sales (100 million yen)
Reduction rate of CO2 emissions compared to the previous fiscal year % reduction (Previous fiscal year’s transport CO2 emissions per sales – Current fiscal year’s transport CO2 emissions per sales) / Previous fiscal year’s transport CO2 emissions per sales x 100. 
Reduce water consumption by 1% in total (128,000 m3)
Amount of reduction of water used m3. 
Build up the water use reduction impact (actual or estimated) of measures implemented at each business site, and calculate the amount of reduction for the current fiscal year. 
Reduce chemical pollutant (PRTR) release to less than the average level of FY 2012-2014. (20.7t)
Volume of PRTR-targeted substances released tons. 
For the substances covered by the PRTR law (Act on Confirmation, etc., of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof), released totals are provided for those substances handled on quantities exceeding 100 kg annually per business site in Japan. 
Reduce the amount of waste to less than the average level of FY 2012-2014. (25,568t)
Amount of waste generated tons. 
Total amount of industrial waste and general waste generated by factories and offices (Thermal recycling volume + Material recycling volume + Disposal volume)
Effective utilization ratio (Japan only) ％ (Amount of effective use (thermal recycling & material recycling) / Amount of waste generated) x 100. 
Environmental Liabilities https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/management/ems/accounting/
Indicator Unit Calculation Method. 
Cost of environmental liabilities Yen 1. Asset retirement obligation (Only asbestos removal cost related to facility disposal) 2. Cost for soil contamination countermeasures 3. Disposal processing cost for waste with high concentration of PCB (polychlorinated biphenyl) 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-10. 
GHG Emissions Report based on GHG Protocol Standards https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/performance/ghg.html. 
Indicator Unit Calculation Method. 
Upstream (Scope 3)
Purchased goods and services tons. 
Components purchased during the fiscal year x Emissions per unit of purchase (Source: Embodied Energy and Emissions Intensity Data (3EID) published by the National Institute for Environmental Studies Center for Global Environmental Research)
Capital goods tons Monetary value of capital x Emissions value per unit of capital value (Source: Same as above)
Fuel and energy– related items not included in Scopes 1 and 2 tons. 
Annual amounts of fuel oil and gas, electricity and heat purchased (consumed) mainly at business sites owned by Fujitsu x Emissions per unit (Source: Basic Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions Via Supply Chains and the Carbon Footprint Communication Program Basic Database Ver. 1 published by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry)
Transportation and distribution (upstream) tons. 
Transportation of goods within Japan: CO2 emissions related to the transportation of goods within Japan by the Fujitsu Group * CO2 emissions related to domestic transportation by the Fujitsu Group, based on the Act on the Rational Use, etc., of Energy. The fuel economy method (for some vehicles) or the improved ton-kilometer method (vehicle, rail, air, ship) tons. 
International transport/overseas local transport: transportation ton-kilometer x Emission per unit (Source: GHG protocol emissions coefficient database)
Waste generated in operations tons. 
Annual amounts of waste (discharged mainly by business sites owned by Fujitsu) processed or recycled, by type and processing method x Emissions per unit of annual amount of waste processed or recycled (Source: Basic Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions Via Supply Chains published by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry)
Business travel tons (By means of transport) Σ(Transportation expense payment x Emissions per unit) (Source: Basic Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions Via Supply Chains Ver. 2.3 and Emissions per Unit Database Ver. 2.6 published by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry)
Employee commuting tons. 
For portions of commute by public transportation: (By means of transport) Σ(Transportation expense payment x Emissions per unit) (Source: Same as above) For portions of commute by private automobile: Σ(Transported persons-kilometer x Emissions per unit) (Source: Same as above) Transported persons-kilometer is calculated from transportation expense payment, price of gasoline, and fuel efficiency. 
Leased assets (Upstream) tons. 
Annual amounts of fuel oil, gas, electricity, and heat consumed mainly at leased business sites x Emissions per unit of fuel oil, gas, electricity, and heat consumed (Sources – Japan: Act on Promotion of Global Warning Countermeasures – GHG Emissions Accounting, Reporting, and Disclosure System; Overseas: IEA CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights 2018)
Reporting company (Scope 1, 2)
Direct emissions tons. 
Amount of CO2 emissions from the consumption of fuel oil and gas (burning of fuel) and GHG emissions other than CO2, mainly at business sites owned by Fujitsu * For the calculation method, see “Greenhouse gas emission (CO2 emissions, greenhouse gas emissions other than CO2) from business sites” in the Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII)
Indirect emissions from energy sources tons. 
CO2 emissions from the consumption (purchase) of electricity and heat mainly at business sites owned by Fujitsu * For the calculation method, see “Greenhouse gas emission (CO2 emissions) at business sites” in the Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII). Use IEA CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights 2018 for some overseas business sites.
Downstream (Scope 3)
Processing of sold products tons Intermediate product sales volume x Emissions per unit of processing volume Intermediate product sales volume refers to Fujitsu’s device solution sales. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-11. 
Response to Environmental Risks / Supplementary Data https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/management/ems/risk/
Indicator Unit Calculation Method. 
Measured value of groundwater pollution mg/L. 
The highest value in the fiscal year for substances detected at levels exceeding regulated levels set in the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act, etc., at monitoring wells at the boundaries of sites where past business activities have resulted in soil contamination. 
Operating Activities and Environmental Load https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/performance/burden.html. 
Indicator Unit Calculation Method. 
INPUT. 
Design/ Procurement/ Manufacturing/ Development. 
Raw Materials tons. 
Material inputs to our major products*1 shipped in the fiscal year (raw materials per unit for each product x The number of units shipped in the fiscal year)
Chemical Substances. 
Volume of substances subject to VOC emissions restrictions tons. 
Of the 20 VOCs (Volatile Organic Compounds) specified in the environmental voluntary action plans of the four electrical and electronic industry associations*2, total amounts handled are provided for those substances handled in quantities exceeding 100 kg annually at individual business sites, including overseas sites Substances subject to VOC emissions controls that are also covered by the PRTR law are included in the section on substances subject to VOC emissions controls. 
Volume of PRTR-targeted substances tons. 
Of the substances covered by the PRTR law (Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environmental and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof), totals are provided for those substances handled in quantities exceeding 100 kg annually per business site, including overseas sites. 
Water usage m3. 
Annual use of clean water, industrial water and groundwater (not including groundwater used for melting snow or extracted for purification.)
Amount of Recycled water m3 Annual amount of water used for manufacturing and other purposes once, then recovered, processed, and used again for manufacturing and. 
Emissions per unit of processing volume is calculated from Fujitsu’s FY 2015 assembly plant data. 
Use of sold products tons. 
Electricity consumption during product use x Emissions per unit electricity (Source: The Electric Power Council for a Low Carbon Society, Actions for Global Warming Countermeasures in the Electricity Business-FY 2018 Follow-up on FY 2017 Results (prior to adjustment)) Electricity consumption during product use is calculated as electricity usage for the anticipated usage time per product unit x Units shipped for the subject fiscal year. Electricity usage for the anticipated usage time per product unit is calculated as electricity consumed (kW) x Time used (h) / Days x Number of days used / Year x Number of years used. Time used (h), number of days used per year, and number of years used are set according to Fujitsu’s internal scenarios. 
End-of-life treatment of sold products tons (Weight of all sold products / Weight of products processed at Fujitsu’s recycling centers during the year) x Electricity used at Fujitsu’s recycling centers during the year x Emissions per unit of electricity (Source: Actual emission factor for each electricity utility based on ministerial ordinances on calculation and adjustment emission factor for each electricity utility based on reporting orders, announced for each fiscal year from FY 2011 to FY 2015)
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-12 other processes.
Energy consumption (calorie basis) GJ Σ[(Electricity, fuel oil and gas, and district heating and cooling annual usage) x Thermal conversion factor for each type of energy*] * Thermal conversion factor (Heating value unit): According to the “Act on the Rational Use, etc., of Energy,” conversion factors from each supplier or 44.8 GJ/1000m3 were used for town gas.

Purchased electricity MWh Annual electricity usage. 
Bunker A, fuel oil, light oil, benzine, gasoline kL Annual fuel oil usage (or purchases)
Natural gas m3 Annual natural gas usage (or purchases)
Town gas m3 Annual town gas usage (or purchases)
LPG tons Annual LPG usage (or purchases)
LNG tons Annual LNG usage (or purchases)
District heating and cooling GJ Annual district heating and cooling (cold and hot water for cooling and heating) usage (or purchases)
Distribution / Sales Energy consumed for transport GJ. 
Total value of transport energy consumption for Fujitsu*1 and Fujitsu Group companies*2 *1 Fujitsu (domestic transport): Energy consumption related to domestic transport by the Fujitsu Group, based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy “Logistics.” *2 Fujitsu Group Companies: Calculated from the transport CO2 emissions from OUTPUT (distribution and sales) using the ratio of Fujitsu (domestic transport) transport energy consumption to transport CO2 emissions.
Usage Energy Electricity. 
GWh Electricity consumed in connection with major products ** shipped during the fiscal year (Amount of electricity used for time estimated per product unit x Units shipped in the fiscal year) GJ. 
Recycling of resources. 
Resource recycling rate ％ Based on the calculation method provided by JEITA, recycled components and resources are calculated as a percentage of the weight of used products processed in Japan. Excludes collected waste other than used electronic products. Processed volume tons. 
Output. 
Design/ Procurement/ Manufacturing/ Development. 
Raw Materials CO2 emissions tons -CO2. 
CO2 emissions related to all stages from resource extraction through processing into raw materials (CO2 emissions equivalent for raw materials used per product unit x Units shipped in the fiscal year) for the raw materials used in major products*1 shipped in the fiscal year. 
Chemical Substances. 
Volume of substances subject to VOC emissions restrictions tons. 
Of the 20 VOCs (Volatile Organic Compounds) specified in the environmental voluntary action plans of the four electrical and electronic industry associations*2, total amounts released are provided for those substances handled in quantities exceeding 100 kg annually at individual business sites, including overseas sites. Substances subject to VOC emissions controls that are also covered by the PRTR law are included in the section on substances subject to VOC emissions controls.
Volume of PRTR-targeted substances released tons. 
Of the substances covered by the PRTR law (Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof), released totals are provided for those substances handled in quantities exceeding 100 kg annually per business site, including overseas sites.
Atmospheric CO2 emissions tons-CO2 * For the calculation method, see “Greenhouse gas emissions (CO2. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-13 pollution emissions) from business sites” in the Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII).
GHG emissions other than CO2 tons * For the calculation method, see “Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG emissions other than CO2) from business sites” in the Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII).
NOx emissions tons NOx concentration (ppm) x 10-6 x Dry gas emissions (m3N/hr) x Operating time (hr/yr) x 46/22.4 x 10-3. 
Sox emissions tons SOx concentration (ppm) x 10-6 x Dry gas emissions (m3N/hr) x Operating time (hr/yr) x 64/22.4 x 10-3. 
Water Discharge. 
Wastewater discharges m3. 
Annual water discharge into public waterways and sewers (not including groundwater used for melting snow, but including groundwater extracted for purification when the amount of water is known)
BOD emissions tons BOD concentration (mg/l) x Water discharges (m3/yr) x 10-6. 
COD emissions tons COD concentration (mg/l) x Water discharges (m3/yr) x 10-6. 
Waste. 
Amount of waste generated tons * For the calculation method, see “Waste generated” in the Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII).
Thermal recycling volume tons. 
Among all types of waste put to effective use, the total volume used in thermal recycling * Thermal recycling: Recovery and use of the heat energy generated by incinerating waste. 
Material recycling volume tons. 
Among all types of waste put to effective use, the total volume used in material recycling * Material recycling: Processing of waste to facilitate its reuse, and re-use of processed waste as material or raw materials for new products. 
Disposal volume tons Volume of industrial and general waste processed by, for example, landfilling or simple incineration. 
Distribution / Sales Atmospheric Release tons-CO2 * For the calculation method, see “Transportation and distribution (upstream)” in the GHG Emissions Report based on GHG Protocol Standards.
Usage Atmospheric Release tons-CO2. 
Emission intensity per electricity has changed since FY 2017. For the calculation method, see “Use of sold products” in the GHG Emissions Report based on GHG Protocol Standards.
*1 Major products: Personal computers, mobile phones, servers, workstations, storage systems, printers, scanners, financial terminals, retail terminals, routers, LAN access equipment, access network products, mobile phone base stations and electronic devices *2 Four electrical and electronic industry associations: The Japan Electrical Manufactures’ Association (JEMA), Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA), Communications and Information Network Association of Japan (CIAJ), and Japan Business Machine and Information System Industries Association (JBMIA).
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-14. 
Environmental Data List of Organizations Covered by the Report on Environmental Activities in FY2018. 
Organizations Covered. 
The coverage is of Fujitsu itself plus a total of 191 companies (including companies outside Japan) centering on consolidated subsidiaries that have built environmental management systems.
The table below shows the organizations for which individual performance data is gathered.
Regarding the Indicators: 
 Environmental burden: Organizations and Fujitsu's overseas non-manufacturing business sites for which business site environmental burden data is calculated  Scope 1, 2, 3: Organizations that are the subject of calculations used in the GHG Emissions Report based on GHG Protocol. 
Standards  Logistics: Organizations for which logistics and transport data is calculated  Environmental Accounting: Organizations for which environmental accounting data is calculated  EMS: Organizations with Environmental Management Systems (EMS) 
* The following company names are as of March 31, 2019.
Fujitsu Group companies in Japan (138 companies)
No. Company name（*）
Environmental burden. 
Scope 1,2,3 Logistics. 
Environmental. 
Accounting EMS 1 Fujitsu Advanced Printing & Publishing Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ ✔ 2 FUJITSU HOME & OFFICE SERVICES LIMITED ✔ ✔ 3 Fujitsu University ✔ ✔ 4 Kawasaki Frontale Limited ✔ ✔ 5 Fujitsu Travelance Ltd. ✔ ✔ 6 Fujitsu Human Resource Professionals Limited ✔ ✔ 7 Fujitsu Techno Research Limited ✔ ✔ 8 Fujitsu CIT Limited ✔ ✔ 9 Toyama Fujitsu Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ 10 Fujitsu Facilities Limited ✔ ✔ 11 OKINAWA FUJITSU SYSTEMS ENGINEERING LIMITED ✔ ✔ 12 DIGITAL PROCESS LTD. ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 13 PFU LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 14 FUJITSU BANKING SOLUTIONS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 15 SHIGA FUJITSU SOFTWARE LIMITED ✔ ✔ 16 FUJITSU BROAD SOLUTION & CONSULTING Inc. ✔ ✔ 17 FUJITSU SOCIAL SCIENCE LABORATORY LIMITED ✔ ✔ 18 FUJITSU YFC LIMITED ✔ ✔ 19 FUJITSU NIIGATA SYSTEMS LIMITED ✔ ✔
No. Company name（*）
Environmental burden. 
Scope 1,2,3 Logistics. 
Environmental. 
Accounting EMS 1 Fujitsu Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-15. 
No. Company name（*）
Environmental burden. 
Scope 1,2,3 Logistics. 
Environmental. 
Accounting EMS 20 FUJITSU HOKURIKU SYSTEMS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 21 FUJITSU KYUSHU SYSTEMS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 22 FUJITSU KAGOSHIMA INFORNET LIMITED ✔ ✔ 23 FUJITSU FIP CORPORATION ✔ ✔ ✔ 24 FUJITSU FIP SYSTEMS CORPORATION ✔ ✔ 25 FUJITSU FIP DC CORPORATION ✔ ✔ 26 FUJITSU FIP KYUSHU CORPORATION ✔ ✔ 27 FUJITSU CLOUD TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED ✔ ✔ 28 G-Search Limited ✔ ✔ 29 FUJITSU FSAS INC. ✔ ✔ ✔ 30 Fujitsu FSAS Creative Inc. ✔ ✔ 31 Fujitsu FSAS Systems Inc. ✔ ✔ 32 Fujitsu FSAS Customer Service Inc. ✔ ✔ 33 Fujitsu FSAS Higashi-Nihon Customer Service Inc. ✔ ✔ 34 Fujitsu FSAS Tokai Customer Service Inc. ✔ ✔ 35 Fujitsu FSAS Hokuriku Customer Service Inc. ✔ ✔ 36 Fujitsu FSAS Kansai Customer Service Inc. ✔ ✔ 37 Fujitsu FSAS Shikoku Customer Service Inc. ✔ ✔ 38 Fujitsu FSAS & Sun LTD. ✔ ✔ 39 FUJITSU COMMUNICATION SERVICES LIMITED ✔ ✔ 40 FUJITSU NETWORK SOLUTIONS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 41 Fujitsu Frontech Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 42 LIFE CREATE LIMITED ✔ ✔ 43 FUJITSU FRONTECH SYSTEMS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 44 FUJITSU SYSTEM INTEGRATION LABORATORIES LIMITED ✔ ✔ 45 FUJITSU TOKKI SYSTEMS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 46 FUJITSU DEFENSE SYSTEMS ENGINEERING LIMITED ✔ ✔ 47 Fujitsu Applications, Ltd. ✔ ✔ 48 FUJITSU LEARNING MEDIA LIMITED ✔ ✔ 49 FUJITSU RESEARCH INSTITUTE ✔ ✔ 50 Fujitsu Marketing Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ 51 Fujitsu Marketing Agent Ltd. ✔ ✔ 52 Fujitsu Marketing Office Services Ltd. ✔ ✔ 53 FUJITSU FOM LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ 54 FUJITSU CoWorCo LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ 55 TWO-ONE LIMITED ✔ ✔ 56 FUJITSU I-NETWORK SYSTEMS LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 57 ECOLITY SERVICE LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ 58 FUJITSU ADVANCED ENGINEERING LIMITED ✔ ✔ 59 Fujitsu Software Technologies Limited ✔ ✔ 60 FUJITSU MIDDLEWARE LIMITED ✔ ✔ 61 Fujitsu Kyushu Network Technologies Limited ✔ ✔ 62 Fujitsu Telecom Networks Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 63 Fujitsu Telecom Networks Fukushima Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ 64 Fujitsu Telecom Networks Kowa Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ 65 FUJITSU COMPUTER TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED ✔ ✔
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-16. 
No. Company name（*）
Environmental burden. 
Scope 1,2,3 Logistics. 
Environmental. 
Accounting EMS 66 FUJITSU IT PRODUCTS LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 67 Fujitsu Isotec Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 68 FIT FRONTIER LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ 69 FUJITSU PERIPHERALS LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 70 FUJITSU PERSONAL SYSTEM LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ 71 Shimane Fujitsu Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 72 FUJITSU KASEI LIMIED ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 73 FUJITSU KASEI RECYCLE LIMITED ✔ ✔ 74 Fujitsu Interconnect Technologies Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 75 FUJITSU QUALITY LABORATORY LIMITED ✔ ✔ 76 FUJITSU QUALITY LABORATORY ENVIRONMENT CENTER LTD. ✔ ✔ 77 Eco Analysis Corporation ✔ ✔ 78 Fujitsu Optical Components Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 79 FUJITSU KANSAI-CHUBU NET-TECH LIMITED ✔ ✔ 80 Fujitsu Mission Critical Software LTD. ✔ ✔ 81 FDK CORPORATION ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 82 FDK SALES CO., LTD. ✔ ✔ 83 FDK ENGINEERING CO., LTD. ✔ ✔ ✔ 84 FDK PARTNERS CORPORATION ✔ ✔ 85 FDK ECOTEC CO., LTD. ✔ ✔ ✔ 86 FUJITSU COMPONENT LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 87 SHINANO FUJITSU LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ 88 TEC CO., LTD. ✔ ✔ 89 CHIKUMA TSUSHIN INDUSTRY CO., LTD. ✔ ✔ ✔ 90 MIYAZAKI FUJITSU COMPONENTS LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ 91 TAKAMISAWA ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Shinshu Plant ✔ ✔ ✔ 92 Transtron Inc. ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 93 FUJITSU ELECTRONICS INC. ✔ ✔ ✔ 94 Fujitsu Devices Inc. ✔ ✔ 95 SHINKO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES CO. LTD. ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 96 SHINKO PARTS CO., LTD. ✔ ✔ 97 SHINKO TECHNOSERVE CO., LTD. ✔ ✔ 98 FUJITSU LABORATORIES LTD ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 99 FUJITSU SEMICONDUCTOR LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 100 Fujitsu Design Limited ✔ ✔ 101 Fujitsu Advanced Technologies Limited ✔ ✔ 102 FUJITSU CAPITAL LIMITED ✔ ✔ 103 MIE FUJITSU SEMICONDUCTOR LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 104 AIZU FUJITSU SEMICONDUCTOR LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ 105 AIZU FUJITSU SEMICONDUCTOR WAFER SOLUTION LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 106 ON Semiconductor Aizu Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 107 Fujitsu IT Management Partner Co. Ltd. ✔ ✔ 108 Fujitsu IS Service Limited ✔ ✔ 109 Fujitsu Quality & Wisdom Limited ✔ ✔ 110 FUJITSU CLIENT COMPUTING LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ 111 FUJITSU PUBLIC SOLUTIONS LIMITED ✔ ✔
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-17. 
No. Company name（*）
Environmental burden. 
Scope 1,2,3 Logistics. 
Environmental. 
Accounting EMS 112 FUJITSU ADVANCED SYSTEMS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 113 Fujitsu Systems Applications & Support Limited ✔ ✔ 114 FUJITSU YAMAGUCHI INFORMATION CO.,LTD ✔ ✔ 115 FUJITSU SHIKOKU INFOTEC LIMITED ✔ ✔ 116 FUJITSU SYSTEMS WEB TECHNOLOGY LIMITED ✔ ✔ 117 FUJITSU NETWORK SERVICE ENGINEERING LIMITED ✔ ✔ 118 FUJITSU SOCIAL LIFE SYSTEMS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 119 Mobile Techno Corp. ✔ ✔ 120 Carenet Limited ✔ ✔ 121 Fujitsu Advance Accounting service Limited ✔ ✔ 122 Fujitsu Harmony Limited ✔ ✔ 123 Fujitsu Banking Information Technology Limited ✔ ✔ 124 UCOT Infotechno co., Ltd ✔ ✔ 125 AB System Solutions Limited ✔ ✔ 126 ZIS INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION ✔ ✔ 127 Fujitsu Yamagata Information Technology Limited. ✔ ✔ 128 BANKING CHANNEL SOLUTIONS Limited ✔ ✔ 129 IT MANAGEMENT PARTNERS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 130 YJK Solutions Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ 131 Best Life Promotion Ltd. ✔ ✔ 132 Fujitsu Traffic & Road Data Service Limited ✔ ✔ 133 Future City Solutions Limited ✔ ✔ 134 TechShop Japan Limited ✔ ✔ 135 Fujitsu Engineering Technologies Limited ✔ ✔ 136 Smart Agriculture IWATA Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ 137 Grand Bouquet Otaki, K.K. ✔ ✔ 138 FITEC ✔ ✔
Fujitsu Group companies worldwide (52 companies)
No. Company name（*）
Environmental burden. 
Scope 1,2,3 Logistics. 
Environmental. 
Accounting EMS 1 Jiangsu Fujitsu Telecommunications Technology Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ 2 Fujitsu Electronics Pacific Asia Limited ✔ ✔ 3 Fujitsu Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ 4 FUJITSU HONG KONG LIMITED ✔ ✔ 5 FUJITSU DO BRASIL LIMITADA ✔ ✔ ✔ 6 FUJITSU ASIA PTE LTD ✔ ✔ 7 FUJITSU NETWORK COMMUNICATIONS INC. ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 8 Fujitsu America, Inc. ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 9 Fujitsu (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ 10 FUJITSU BUSINESS TECHNOLOGIES ASIA PACIFIC LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ 11 FUJITSU AUSTRALIA LTD. ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 12 Fujitsu Technology Solutions GmbH ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 13 Fujitsu Electronics Europe GmbH ✔ ✔ 14 Fujitsu Nanda Software Technology Co., Ltd ✔ ✔ 15 FUJITSU SERVICES HOLDINGS PLC ✔ ✔ ✔ 16 FUJITSU KOREA LTD. ✔ ✔
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-4-3-18. 
No. Company name（*）
Environmental burden. 
Scope 1,2,3 Logistics. 
Environmental. 
Accounting EMS 17 FUJITSU TAIWAN LIMITED ✔ ✔ 18 Fujitsu Telecommunication Asia Sdn. Bhd. ✔ ✔ 19 Fujitsu (China) Holdings Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ 20 Fujitsu Technology and Business of America, Inc. ✔ ✔ 21 FUJITSU (XI'AN) SYSTEM ENGINEERING Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ 22 Beijing Fujitsu System Engineering Co., LTD. ✔ ✔ 23 Fujitsu Glovia, Inc. ✔ ✔ 24 FUJITSU AUSTRALIA SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY PTY. LTD. ✔ ✔ 25 FUJITSU Enabling Software Technology GmbH ✔ ✔ 26 Fujitsu Electronics America, Inc ✔ ✔ 27 Fujitsu Electronics Korea Ltd. ✔ ✔ 28 Fujitsu Research and Development Center Co., LTD. ✔ ✔ 29 Fujitsu Computer Products of America ✔ ✔ ✔ 30 Fujitsu Frontec North America ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 31 FUJITSU COMPONENTS (CHANGZHOU) CO., LTD. ✔ ✔ 32 QINGDAO KOWA SEIKO CO., LTD. ✔ ✔ 33 FUJITSU COMPONENT (MALAYSIA) SDN. BHD. ✔ ✔ 34 PT FDK INDONESIA ✔ ✔ 35 XIAMEN FDK CORPORATION ✔ ✔ 36 SUZHOU FDK CO., LTD. ✔ ✔ 37 FUCHI ELECTRONICS CO., LTD. ✔ ✔ 38 FUJITSU DIE-TECH CORPORATION OF THE PHILIPPINES ✔ ✔ ✔ 39 SHINKO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES (WUXI) CO., LTD. ✔ ✔ 40 KOREA SHINKO MICROELECTRONICS CO., LTD. ✔ ✔ 41 SHINKO ELECTRONICS (MALAYSIA) SDN. BHD. ✔ ✔ 42 TRANSTRON (THAILAND) CO., LTD. ✔ ✔ 43 Fujitsu Consulting India ✔ ✔ 44 FUJITSU (CHINA) Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ 45 Fujitsu Finance America, Inc. ✔ ✔ 46 FUJITSU EMEA PLC ✔ ✔ 47 Fujitsu RunMyProcess SAS ✔ ✔ 48 UShareSoft, SAS ✔ ✔ 49 Fujitsu Greenhouse Technology Finland Oy ✔ ✔ 50 Fujitsu Systems Global Solutions Management Sdn. Bhd. ✔ ✔ 51 Fujitsu Sweden AB ✔ 52 Fujitsu New Zealand Limited ✔ 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-5. 

 

 

 
Global Responsible Business - Compliance - 

The Fujitsu Group recognizes the operation and maintenance of internal control system including compliance is one of the most important management issues, from the perspective of maintaining and improving corporate value. Therefore, we will ensure to keep entire organizations informed about the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct.
Furthermore, in all our business activities, we shall be aware of and act with integrity on a higher level of corporate ethics respecting international and local standards.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-5-1. 
Goal. 
Long-term Goal to be achieved by FY2030. 
The Fujitsu Group, from the perspective of maintaining and improving corporate value, recognizes that the installation and operation of an internal control structure, which includes compliance, is one of the most important aspects of management.
The Fujitsu Group will disseminate the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct throughout the entire organization. Furthermore, the. 
Fujitsu Group will be aware of a higher level of corporate ethics, which includes social norms in that scope, and act with integrity in all of its business activities.
Compliance 

 

 

 
⇩ Policies and Structure for Implementation ⇩ Top Management Initiatives ⇩ Global Compliance Program ⇩ Initiatives for Security Export Controls ⇩ Our Approach to Tax Matters ⇩ FY 2018 Performance. 
Policies and Structure for Implementation. 
At the Fujitsu Group, the Risk Management & Compliance Committee, which is operated under the direct control of the Board of. 
Directors and headed by the President, is responsible for overseeing Group-wide compliance at the global level based on our. 
Basic Policy for Establishing Internal Control （*1）. Together with appointing a Chief Risk Management & Compliance Officer (CRCO) who is tasked with carrying out the Committee's compliance-related policies and decisions, the Committee established the Global Compliance Program. In cooperation with Region Risk Management & Compliance Committees, which have been established as subcommittees in each region, the Committee strives to raise Group-wide awareness of the Fujitsu Way Code of. 
Conduct and achieve compliance with that Code.
The Risk Management & Compliance Committee and the Region Risk Management and Compliance Committees regularly verify the current operational status of the Global Compliance Program and file reports with the Board of Directors. Under the initiative and supervision of top management, these Committees implement and operate the internal company rules, training activities, and monitoring systems necessary for compliance with the laws and regulations that concerns the business activities of the. 
Fujitsu Group.
*1 “Basic Policy for Establishing Internal Control” in Japan https://pr.fujitsu.com/jp/ir/report/2018/n119.pdf（P.3-P.7） 
The Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct. 
The Fujitsu Way contains a Code of Conduct that all Fujitsu. 
Group employees should abide by, shown on the right.
Fujitsu has also refined the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct, developed Global Business Standards (GBS) （*2） in 20 languages to serve as a guide on legally compliant behavior for all Fujitsu Group-affiliated employees around the world, and applies GBS uniformly across the Fujitsu Group.
 
*2 Global Business Standards https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/philosophy/codeofconduct/gbs/
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-5-2. 
Top Management Initiatives. 
Top Management proactively and continuously expresses its intentions to strive for compliance through their measures such as transmitting messages to employees, and in doing so, Fujitsu puts the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct and GBS into practice, and make them widespread across the entire Fujitsu Group.
After the antitrust matter in relation to transactions for communication equipment targeted at electric power companies the. 
President himself sends repeated messages to all employees, declaring that Fujitsu will put an end to compliance violations, including bid rigging and forming cartels. Even overseas, regional heads and Group company top managers continuously send messages that explain the importance of compliance and corporate culture that has zero tolerance for illegality.
Furthermore, starting in December 2017, Fujitsu newly established the Fujitsu Compliance Week in accordance with. 
International Anti-Corruption Day on December 9th, which is designated by the United Nations, and engages in measures like sending out simultaneous messages across the Fujitsu Group to encourage employees to think once again about compliance and to promote the discussion.
Global Compliance Program. 
Fujitsu has formulated the Fujitsu Global Compliance Program (GCP) in order to implement and disseminate the Fujitsu Way. 
Code of Conduct and GBS, and is working to maintain and improve the global legal compliance structure across the entire Fujitsu. 
Group. The GCP systematically organizes our various compliance-related activities into five pillars. While clarifying what items. 
Fujitsu needs to address on a continual basis, the GCP also promotes external understanding of Fujitsu’s compliance structure and its compliance activities. Based on this GCP, we take factors such as the legal systems of each country/region and the guidelines of their government institutions into account, and implement various policies and initiatives in each region.
When implementing the GCP, we establish internal Group rules and deploy an officer responsible for compliance activities to each region to secure the implementation structure. We also continuously provide employees with various forms of training, and aim to embed the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct and GBS. In addition, we have established an internal whistleblower system(*3) in case of compliance issues, and in the event that compliance violations are discovered, employees are required to immediately report them to the Risk Management & Compliance section. We periodically verify the effectiveness of the GCP through measures such as risk assessment, audit, and reviews by external specialists, and continuously work towards improve the GCP.
See here (PDF) for more information about the promotion of the Global Compliance Program.
 

 

 

 

 

 *3 Internal Whistleblower System. 
The Fujitsu Group has established a point of contact inside and outside the company, operated as the Compliance Line/Fujitsu Alert, to receive reports from all Group employees (including retirees, temporary transfers, contracted employees, part-time employees and dispatch workers) and offer consultations (including anonymous reports).
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-5-3. 
We have established a Compliance Line for Suppliers in Japan to receive reports from the suppliers of Fujitsu and domestic Group companies, to whom we directly supply products, services, software and other goods. FUJITSU Alert is also available overseas in 20 languages, and accepts reports from customers, suppliers and other third parties 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
 Fujitsu Alert https://secure.ethicspoint.eu/domain/media/en/gui/102834/index.html  Compliance Line for Suppliers in Japan https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/csr/management/compliance/complianceline/
Our Response to Compliance Issues. 
In July 2016, Fujitsu was found to have violated the Antimonopoly Act with regard to coordinating an order of electric power security communications equipment for Tokyo Electric Power Company., Inc. (now Tokyo Electric Power Company Holdings, Inc.), and was ordered to cease and desist, in addition to being ordered to pay a surcharge (hereafter, the TEPCO case). Subsequently, in February 2017, Fujitsu was found to have violated the Antimonopoly Act with Chubu Electric Power Co., Inc. regarding transactions for hybrid optical communications equipment and transmission-path equipment (hereafter, the CEPCO case). With regard to the CEPCO case, by immediately filing for immunity from or reduction of surcharges, Fujitsu was fully exempted from having to pay a surcharge, and also avoided being subject to a cease and desist order. Fujitsu will once again deeply reflect on what led to this series of incidents, and sincerely apologizes to all parties affected for the trouble caused.
Fujitsu took disciplinary action against the employees involved in these violations and imposed salary reductions (a 10-30% reduction in monthly salary for three months) on seven executives, including the Chairman and the President, based on a resolution by the Board of Directors. Immediately after the TEPCO case came to light, the President declared that bid rigging and cartel forming would be stamped out, and continued to repeat this message to all executives and employees. The executives in charge have also made Fujitsu’s commitment to compliance known to their subordinates. As mentioned above, Fujitsu also conducts compliance training for all Fujitsu Group executives and employees inside and outside Japan.
Furthermore, with the aim ofsecuring effectiveness of the GCP in Japan, Fujitsu established the Domestic Compliance Program, based on Japan Fair Trade Commission documents about the state of business compliance with the Antimonopoly Act. In FY 2017 and FY 2018, Fujitsu adopted Antimonopoly Act-focused internal seminars and audits as key measures, promoted relationship- building and two-way communication with the relevant divisions, and worked to create an environment that would not allow for bid rigging.
As we continue to enhance our compliance-related initiatives based on these programs, we will work to win back the trust we had early on, and strive to prevent such issues from happening again.
Initiatives for Security Export Controls. 
The export of goods and the transfer of technology that could be used for the development or production of weapons of mass destruction or conventional weaponry is controlled by an international framework for security export controls, with the objective of maintaining global peace and security. In Japan, regulations for security export controls are implemented under the Foreign. 
Exchange and Foreign Trade Act (the Foreign Exchange Act).
In line with the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct’s stipulation that employees should comply with all laws and regulations, Fujitsu has enacted “Internal Compliance Program” on Security Export Control Regulations whose fundamental objective is the promotion of security export controls that are not only in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Act, but with the Export. 
Administration Regulations (EAR) of the United States, which are applied extraterritorially.
Fujitsu has established a system in which the President serves as the designated Chief Security Export Control Officer, while the. 
Security Export Control Office in the Legal, Compliance and Intellectual Property Unit serves as the organization that promotes security export control activities. The Security Export Control Office carries out all classification and transaction screening (verifying the country/region receiving the goods/technology, the intended application for it, and the identity of the client) for export of goods and the transfer of technology to overseas locations, where all necessary licenses are adequately obtained before shipment. In addition, in the “Internal Compliance Program” such process is established that legal violations shall be reported immediately. When conducting business, in order to prevent legal violations by misinterpretation of and/or overlook of related regulations, we coordinate closely with the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, which has jurisdiction over export administration regulations.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-5-4. 
In order to maintain this internal system for security export controls and keep it going, we continue to conduct regular audits and provide export controls training to all executives and employees.
With regard to all domestic and overseas Group companies, Fujitsu headquarters offer guidance about how to develop rules and establish frameworks for proper security export controls, provides educational support and audit support, and organizes gatherings within the Group for the purpose of information exchange, among other activities. In addition, since FY 2013, Fujitsu has been developing an e-Learning course that covers security export controls and is available in 20 languages for Group companies around the world.
Our Approach to Tax Matters. 
Tax compliance at Fujitsu is carried out according to the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct.
 We strive to comply with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and treaties in each country, as well as guidelines by. 
OECD and other international organization, and to properly file and pay taxes.
 We strive to respect the general rule of an arm’s length price in transactions between related companies, and to pay proper taxes in the countries where business activities are conducted.
We will follow Principles of the Fujitsu Way in our relationships with tax authorities, and act with sound ethics and integrity.
After taking the above into account, we will follow the corporate values of the Fujitsu Way, and in order to continuously increase our corporate value, we will aim to implement proper tax management.
FY 2018 Performance. 
Compliance Training  Within Japan  Training for new company executives at Fujitsu and domestic Group companies  Internal seminars for managers at Fujitsu and domestic Group companies  E-Learning courses for all employees at Fujitsu and domestic Group companies: 98.3% of employees at Fujitsu taking part, 98.4% of employees at domestic Group companies taking part (as of May 2019)  E-Learning courses for new employees: 99.6% of new employees at Fujitsu taking part, 98.9% of new employees at domestic. 
Group companies taking part (as of May 2019)  Group training sessions for sales divisions: Implementation focused on supervising divisions of public businesses  Overseas Regions  E-Learning courses for employees at overseas Group companies (offered in 20 languages and available in 72 countries):
Over 93% of employees taking part (as of April 2019)  E-Learning courses for new employees  Separate group training sessions for each region and division  Training for employees who will leave for overseas: monthly. 
Security Export Controls  Regular internal audits: 30 divisions within Fujitsu  Audits, training and structural enhancement and support: 37 domestic Group companies and 12 overseas Group companies. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-6. 

 

 

 
Global Responsible Business - Supply Chain - 

The Fujitsu Group sets “Co-existence with Suppliers”, “Fair and Proper Evaluation and Selection of Suppliers” and “Promotion of CSR-
Conscious Procurement Activities” as the procurement guidelines for its global procurement activities, and will accomplish a CSR risk-free procurement to fulfill our corporate social responsibility.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-6-1. 
Goal. 
Long-term Goal to be achieved by FY2030. 
The Fujitsu Group will accomplish CSR risk-free procurement to fulfill our corporate social responsibility.
 Acquire written commitment to responsible procurement from all of our key suppliers.
Supply Chain 

 

 ⇩ Policy ⇩ Structures for Promoting CSR Procurement & Periodic Reviews ⇩ Promoting Green Procurement ⇩ Promoting Information Security Measures ⇩ Enhancing Supply Chain BCM ⇩ Communication with Suppliers ⇩ Strengthening Procurement Compliances ⇩ FY2018 Performance. 
Policy. 
The Fujitsu Group holds “Co-existence with Suppliers”, “Fair and Proper Evaluation and Selection of Suppliers” and “Promotion of. 
CSR-Conscious Procurement Activities” as the tenets of its CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Procurement Guideline, and conducts its global procurement activities accordingly.
In 2005 we formulated the "CSR Procurement Guideline” for CSR procurement and requested our suppliers in Japan and overseas to comply with that guideline. In 2018 we adopted the RBA（*1）Code of Conduct as the "Fujitsu Group CSR Procurement Guideline".
 *1 Press Release: Fujitsu Joins EICC, a Global Corporate Social Responsibility Coalition (renamed as the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) in October 2017) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/resources/news/press-releases/2017/0329-01.html 
 Fujitsu Group Procurement Policy https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/procurement/policy/  Fujitsu Group CSR Procurement Guideline (RBA Code of Conduct) https://www.responsiblebusiness.org/code-of-conduct/
Structures for Promoting CSR Procurement & Periodic Reviews. 
Under the group-wide policy, the relevant departments in the Fujitsu Group collaborate regarding the promotion of CSR activities.
In the area of procurement, the Global Supply Chain Unit works with the relevant departments in promoting socially responsible procurement activities by suppliers. The CSR promotion activities are targeted at our major suppliers, that is, the largest suppliers on a monetary basis and those who have ongoing dealings with Fujitsu.
We initially clarify the compliance items through our CSR Procurement Guideline and then require our suppliers to undertake CSR activities. To confirm that these CSR activities are being fully implemented by suppliers, they are asked to respond to a range of surveys on topics such as green procurement, information security and Business Continuity Management (BCM).
The survey responses are analyzed and the results are returned to the suppliers as feedback. Where a supplier fails to meet Fujitsu’s standards, they undertake to make improvements. Where there is a particular need to check whether CSR activities are being fully implemented by a supplier, a CSR audit is conducted. Such suppliers are required to submit a remediation plan for any matters identified by the audit and Fujitsu works with the suppliers to make the necessary improvements. Fujitsu is continually improving its processes and promoting CSR procurement with the goal that ultimately CSR activities will be properly undertaken by suppliers and will become firmly entrenched.
 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-6-2. 
Promoting Activities and Participation in Industry-standard Initiatives (RBA Membership) 
The Fujitsu Group is a member of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), a global CSR alliance. As such, we give serious consideration to the RBA’s Code of Conduct and engage in socially responsible procurement with our suppliers and throughout our supply chain.
The Fujitsu Group also takes an active role in the programs and initiatives of organizations such as the Japan Electronics and. 
Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) and works to promote socially responsible procurement in the industry.
Addressing High-Risk Minerals. 
The policy of the Fujitsu Group is to exclude from its products, components and supply chain any minerals that give rise to conflicts (“conflict minerals”), or minerals that are at high risk of being associated with forced labor or human rights violations. (The Fujitsu. 
Group identifies tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten and cobalt as high-risk minerals.)
Fujitsu has also established a structure to ensure the transparency of procurement activities in the supply chain and the responsible procurement of minerals. This structure includes the relevant internal departments and operates under the jurisdiction of the. 
Responsible Business Committee (chaired by Fujitsu’s President).
  Fujitsu Group Policy on Responsible Minerals Procurement https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/procurement/Fujitsu_Group_Policy_on_Responsible_Minerals_Sourcing _v01.pdf. 


Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-6-3. 
Surveys on High-Risk Minerals. 
As part of its due diligence, the Fujitsu Group conducts high-risk minerals surveys with reference to the “OECD Due Diligence. 
Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas”. These surveys use the Conflict. 
Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) and Cobalt Reporting Template (CRT) developed by the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI).
  List of smelters checked in the surveys https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/society/procurement/CF_SOR_List_20190610.pdf. 
Reminders are sent to those suppliers who failed to respond to our survey by the due date. If survey responses reveal insufficient answers, suppliers are asked to resubmit their responses. Where customers indicate that a smelter is considered to be “risky”, we ask suppliers using that smelter to re-examine the nature of their dealings with the smelter.
While there have been no confirmed reports yet of smelters having any involvement with armed groups, we will continue to conduct programs aimed at identifying smelters and further increasing transparency in our supply chain.
Promoting Green Procurement. 
The Fujitsu Group has set out its basic approach to the environmentally sound procurement of components, materials and products in the Fujitsu Group Green Procurement Direction, and we are working with our suppliers to promote green procurement activities.
We are also implementing a program to reduce CO2 emissions in the supply chain. Specifically, the Fujitsu Group is promoting activities aimed at reducing environmental impacts throughout the supply chain, including by requesting that all of its suppliers call on their own suppliers (companies that are secondary suppliers from a Fujitsu Group perspective) to also reduce their CO2 emissions. We will also be intensifying our engagement with suppliers regarding water resource conservation.
  Promotion of the Fujitsu Group Green Procurement Direction and our initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions in the supply chain https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/procurement/green/
Promoting Information Security Measures. 
Based on the “Cybersecurity Management Guidelines” issued in December 2015 by Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Information-technology Promotion Agency (IPA), the Fujitsu Group, along with its suppliers, has adopted the goal of “eliminating information security incidents”, and is continually implementing measures to prevent such incidents or recurrences.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-6-4. 
These measures include education, raising awareness, auditing, and sharing information.
In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the commercial use of external services such as cloud computing and social media. There has also been a rapid increase in opportunities for the use of smart devices such as smartphones and tablet PCs. It is necessary to prevent not only incorrectly addressed emails being sent by mistake and the theft or loss of PCs and smart devices, but also new kinds of risks involving information leaks such as in-house crimes and cyber terrorism. In this context, when the. 
Fujitsu Group consigns work to suppliers, including offshore development work entrusted to overseas suppliers, it promotes education and awareness by requiring the same standards of information security management and handling of personal information as it applies to its own operations. If any serious problem regarding information security is discovered at a supplier, or if the supplier fails to immediately implement corrective measures and no improvement is observed, Fujitsu will take steps such as reviewing its business relationship with the supplier.
Enhancing Supply Chain BCM. 
The Fujitsu Group sees the enhancement of Business Continuity Management (BCM) throughout its supply chain as essential to ensuring a stable supply of products and services in the event of major disasters or other unexpected contingencies. Accordingly, since FY2007 we have provided our suppliers with ongoing support to improve their BCM capabilities.
Fujitsu conducts an annual questionnaire-based survey of its suppliers on how they address BCM. This survey also covers some group companies that conduct their own procurement. We analyze the responses to the survey and then provide feedback to the suppliers and group companies. Since FY2014, we have been using a standard survey form developed by JEITA’s Materials. 
Committee.
Fujitsu also conducts annual surveys of major solutions-related suppliers, analyzing the responses and providing feedback.
Communication with Suppliers. 
Business Meetings. 
Under the Suppliers' Performance Review (SPR（*2）) system, the Fujitsu Group holds management-level business meetings targeting around 200 of its major suppliers. These meetings provide both direct feedback on the assessment results in an interactive format as well as explanations of Fujitsu’s business outlook and procurement strategy. The feedback provided at these meetings also addresses CSR topics, and suppliers whose efforts do not meet Fujitsu’s standards are asked to make improvements.
Fujitsu also carries out assessments of solutions-related suppliers and provides the results of those assessments as feedback to the major suppliers.
 *2 Suppliers’ Performance Review: A program developed by Fujitsu that assesses the performance of procured goods and the basic profile of enterprises in terms of quality, technology, price, supply and CSR.
Fujitsu Suppliers’ Reception. 
The Fujitsu Group has been holding receptions for its suppliers since 1997. These events provide an opportunity for Fujitsu’s. 
President to give an overview of the Fujitsu Group’s business activities and for the Vice President responsible for purchasing to explain Fujitsu’s purchasing strategy. These gatherings are also used to present certificates of appreciation to suppliers who have made exceptional contributions to our business and to further strengthen our partnerships with suppliers.
Strengthening Procurement Compliance. 
Education by Procurement Divisions. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-6-5. 
The procurement divisions of the Fujitsu Group conduct annual education and training programs for their suppliers to thoroughly disseminate awareness of CSR and to ensure that procurement is socially responsible. In FY2018, in addition to CSR procurement and green procurement, training aimed at increasing awareness among procurement staff was also offered in the areas of risk management (BCM activities) and compliance with legislation such as the Subcontracting Law and the Worker Dispatching. 
Business Law.
Supplier Compliance Line. 
The Fujitsu Group uses the Supplier Compliance Line as a channel to receive reports from suppliers regarding any actions that are potential or actual instances of non-compliance in our purchasing activities. Channels have been set up both internally and externally through which we can verify and investigate the facts of each report and respond quickly.
Fujitsu’s internal reporting standards prohibit any adverse treatment of its own staff making such reports or of staff from suppliers making the reports.
Our agreements with suppliers also include explicit provisions on the elimination of anti-social forces and other such groups with the aim of preventing harmful actions by such anti-social forces (and avoiding any encouragement of their activities). The Fujitsu. 
Group, including its suppliers, will have no relationship whatsoever with anti-social forces.
  Supplier Compliance Line https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/csr/management/compliance/complianceline/ 
FY2018 Performance. 
CSR Surveys & Audits  CSR surveys of major suppliers in Japan and overseas: Approximately 200 companies  Responses revealed that more than 90% of all major suppliers are actively undertaking CSR activities.
 CSR audits of suppliers: Nine companies  While no major violations were found, the audits confirmed the existence of items requiring remediation in some minor areas, such as employment that exceeded legal overtime hours, deficient equipment installation and insufficient management of waste product facilities.
 The suppliers concerned were requested to provide remediation plans and to implement the remediation measures; these matters will be pursued until remediation is completed.
High-Risk Mineral Survey Results  In the FY2018 survey, Fujitsu received responses from 85％ of the suppliers surveyed.
 Smelters operated by 322 companies were checked, of which 254 were compliant with the RMI-certified Responsible. 
Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP).
Promoting Information Security Measures  Information security briefings (total 9 locations; Oct.-Nov. 2018): Approximately 900 companies / 1,300 people  Written surveys on the state of information security measures (Feb.-Mar. 2019): Approximately 1,700 companies  Audits on the state of information security measures (on-site checking) (Apr. 2018-Mar. 2019): Approximately 200 companies * Repeated status surveys, education and auditing of suppliers are fundamental to the maintenance of trouble-free operations.
Enhancing Supply Chain BCM. 
Products:  Surveys conducted (May-September 2018): 907 companies / 2,384 locations. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-6-6  Feedback provided (October 2018): 907 companies / 2,384 locations. 
Solutions:  Assessment feedback provided: Approximately 250 companies. 
Communication with Suppliers. 
Products:  Business meetings held: 27. 
Solutions:  Assessment feedback provided: Approximately 250 companies. 
Fujitsu Suppliers’ Reception  Held January 2019: Suppliers in Japan and overseas - Approximately 310 companies and 600 people * This year’s event was also used as an opportunity to request that suppliers expand their CSR activities to their own upstream suppliers.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-7. 

 

 

 
Global Responsible Business - Health and Safety - 

According to our corporate policy "to ensure a safe and comfortable working environment", the Fujitsu Group gives the first priority in all business activities to protect the health and safety of our employees both in mind and body, by providing a healthy and safe work environment tailored to the different cultures in which we operate.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-7-1. 
Goal. 
Long-term Goal to be achieved by FY2030. 
The Fujitsu Group's first priority in all business activities is to protect the health and safety of our employees both in mind and body by providing a safe and healthy work environment tailored to the different cultures in which we operate.
 We will foster a culture that does not tolerate accidents, incidents and poor safety performance.
 We will ensure safety is a core business value; Make safety important and personal in order to influence peoples decisions and behavior  We will eliminate all instances of preventable illness, injury and business loss due to unplanned events throughout our operations and premises.
Health and Safety 

 

 

 

 ⇩ Policy ⇩ Promotion Framework and Regular Reviews ⇩ Efforts to Improve Occupational Health and Safety ⇩ FY 2018 Results. 
Policy. 
The Fujitsu Group corporate philosophy advocates, “ensuring a safe and comfortable working environment.” Based on this philosophy we have also established our Health and Safety Policy, and through coordination between the Human Resources and. 
General Affairs Units, the Group works together as a whole to establish safe, pleasant work environments, create our corporate culture, and ensure the health and safety of employees.

Fujitsu Group’s Health and Safety Policy. 
Ensuring the health and safety of Fujitsu's employees is one of the most important management topics, and it is given the highest priority in all of Fujitsu's business activities.
Promotion Framework and Regular Reviews. 
The Fujitsu Group has established a Central Health and Safety Committee to coordinate the activities of the health and safety committees at individual business sites. The Central Health and Safety Committee is comprised of the executives in charge of the. 
Human Resources Unit and Health Promotion Unit, and representatives and others from the Labor Union. It meets once per year to share information and report to management and those in charge at each location about the confirmed status of disasters that have occurred at business sites, and about preventative measures, while also formulating Group-wide health and safety related policies.
The health and safety management organizations at individual business sites hold monthly Health and Safety Committee meetings.
These committees establish policies suited to the unique characteristics of each site and work to create healthier, safer workplaces in accordance with policies related to the Occupational Health and Safety Management System. These health and safety management organizations also survey the worksites to check and improve anything that is potentially dangerous or could lead to occupational accidents, and they conduct risk assessments. Some business sites have obtained OHSAS 18001 and ISO 45001 international health and safety standard certification.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-7-2. 
Efforts to Improve Occupational Health and Safety. 
The Fujitsu Group works toward health and safety with the goal of having zero occupational accidents. Our efforts to boost awareness for the prevention of occupational accidents include health and safety training at each division, and encouraging exercise habits that help prevent falls. Starting in FY 2014 we have also been conducting voluntary inspections and getting third- party verifications from specialists to reduce the risk of accidents at manufacturing sites.
Occupational Health and Safety Training. 
Fujitsu and our group companies provide health and safety training, as well as health education that raises health awareness.
Training is also conducted on-site for the particular work environments present at each individual business site.
Overseas Health and Safety Efforts. 
Our Occupational Health and Safety Group in the EMEIA region employs a comprehensive region-driven approach to promote thorough awareness of occupational health and safety compliance and preventive measures.
Every year employee occupational health and safety awareness activities are widely conducted in the region, advocating the themes of World Day for Safety and Health at Work organized by the International Labor Organization (ILO). Efforts also began in. 
FY 2018 to collect and utilize data on occupational accident occurrences with the aim of preventing such accidents. This data is being used to construct a cross-organization incident management system for the EMEIA region, which is scheduled to go live in. 
FY 2019.
The EMEIA region sets specific medium- to long-term objectives that include specific measures such as these, and works working diligently to foster a culture that is not permissive of occupational accidents, while also strengthening governance, establishing management systems, and developing human resources and skills.
 

 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-7-3. 
FY 2018 Results. 
Occupational Accident Occurrences (Fujitsu and group companies in Japan)
Accident frequency rates and severity rates have been much lower than the national average in Japan. The most common type of accidents in FY 2018 was falls. There were also no deaths from occupational accidents.
Group Companies with OHSAS 18001 Certification  FDK Corporation (Takasaki Plant, FDK Tottori Co., Ltd.)  PFU Techno Wise Limited  Fujitsu Interconnect Technologies Limited  Fujitsu Australia Limited. 
Group Companies with ISO 45001 Certification  Fujitsu Services Ltd  Fujitsu Technology Solutions SA. 
Details of Education and Training Efforts  Health and safety training for new employees (approximately 2,000 employees/year) (Fujitsu and group companies in. 
Japan)  Learning basic knowledge for preventing occupational accidents, and fundamental tips for managing personal health  Health and safety training for business sites (approximately 800 employees/year, at main business sites in the Tokyo-
Yokohama area) (Fujitsu and group companies in Japan)  Traffic safety training: Seminars that include case examples, aimed at preventing traffic accidents  Safety training for laboratories: Learning about laws and regulations pertaining to laboratories, points to note when conducting experiments, and how to manage chemicals. 
Overall Efforts  Training for those in charge of health and safety - 30 sites (Fujitsu and group companies in Japan)  Sharing information about the occupational accident status at all sites - once/year (Fujitsu and group companies in Japan)  Registering and accumulating case examples of occupational accidents on our health and safety intranet website - ongoing (Fujitsu and group companies in Japan)  Occupational accident prevention verifications at manufacturing sites - 30 sites (Fujitsu and group companies in Japan)
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-8. 

 

 

 
Global Responsible Business - Community - 

The Fujitsu Group will build collaborative partnerships to engage and empower communities. We will contribute to the prosperity of the communities in which we work globally through collaboration with our business activities, and encourage our employees to develop their skills, have confidence, and be proud to work for Fujitsu through giving back to society.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-8-1-1. 
Goal. 
Long-term Goal to be achieved by FY2030. 
The Fujitsu Group will build collaborative partnerships to engage and empower communities.
We will contribute to the prosperity of the communities in which we work globally through collaboration with our business activities.
We will encourage our employees to develop their skills, have confidence, and be proud to work for Fujitsu through giving back to society.
Social Contribution Activities 

 

 

⇩ Approach to Social Contribution Activities ⇩ FY 2018 Performance. 
Approach to Social Contribution Activities. 
The Fujitsu Group will create new value and knowledge together with our customers, communities, and people worldwide through ICT, and contribute to sustainable development for the earth and society to achieve a prosperous future where people's dreams are fulfilled.
All Fujitsu employees are actively participating and engaging in social contribution activities together with a wide range of stakeholders and base on “activities that empower people through partnership” and "social contribution activities to develop science and technology".
In order to energize our social contribution activities and share best practices, we are building and have made viewable a record of our activities on our internal system. We also carry out an in-house award program using this database.
FY 2018 Performance. 
Total Amount of Investments for Social Contribution Activities. 
The following chart describes the investments for social contribution activities at Fujitsu in fiscal 2018.
 

 

 

 

 

 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-8-1-2. 
Employee Volunteer Activity Support System. 
The Fujitsu Group has in place a volunteer activity support system to encourage each employee's active contribution to society.
Additionally, we have also developed various programs customized to the characteristics of each region in order to support better local communities in each area where we have a business site.

In FY 2018, 60 employees took Reserve leave (a total of 177 days) to participate in volunteer activities.
 

Volunteer Activity Support System. 
Fujitsu has established the following programs for supporting volunteer activities undertaken by employees.
 • System of leave of absence for participation in Japan Overseas Cooperation Volunteers or Senior Overseas Volunteer: up to three years • Reserve leave: Five days paid leave per year, can be accumulated up to twenty days (to be used for specified purposes including volunteer work) 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-8-2-1. 
Activities that Empower People through Partnerships. 
Soccer watching for sensitive children (Japan) 
Fujitsu held an event to watch the J.League (Top tier soccer league of Japan) match of "Kawasaki Frontale vs Oita Trinita" for children with developmental disabilities and their families to promote "Barrier-free minds (*1)". This event was held by Fujitsu, JTB and. 
ANA in cooperation with Kawasaki City, J.League and Kawasaki Frontale.
Children with sensory sensitivity to crowds and loud cheers, watched the game in the sensory room (*2). On the following day, they participated in a "Soccer class" led by a coach from Kawasaki Frontale to experience the excitement of playing sports.
Fujitsu works to achieve "Barrier-free minds" by supporting the creation of children's diaries using ICT and by holding simulated experiences of children with developmental disabilities by spectators as well as being involved in the planning and management.
Fujitsu will continue to promote "Barrier-free minds" through sports in cooperation with the J.League, other sports-related organizations, and local governments.
 
*1 "Barrier-free minds" means that all people with various mental and physical characteristics and ways of thinking communicate and support each other to deepen mutual understanding.
*2 This is a special area where children who have difficulties dealing with large crowds and loud cheers due to sensuality caused by developmental disorders, can watch the game without any concerns. This was the first case of watching a sporting event in a sensory room in Japan.

CO2 Reduction Credit Donated to Tokyo Metropolitan Government "Zero emission Tokyo" (Japan) 
The Fujitsu Group medium / long-term environmental vision, "FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision (*3)", sets out "To achieve zero emissions by ourselves" and "Contribution to society toward a carbon-free society". Accordingly, in order to support the Tokyo. 
Metropolitan Government's goal of "Zero Emissions Tokyo (*4)" and to cooperate with its activities, we donated a CO2 emission reduction credit based on the Tokyo Metropolitan Cap and Trade System (*5), 59,820 [t-CO2], to the Tokyo Metropolitan. 
Goal. 
Long-term Goal to be achieved by FY2030. 
The Fujitsu Group will build collaborative partnerships to engage and empower communities.
We will contribute to the prosperity of the communities in which we work globally through collaboration with our business activities.
We will encourage our employees to develop their skills, have confidence, and be proud to work for Fujitsu through giving back to society.
Watching a game in a sensory room Experience making a diary Experience outside the stadium (Photo credit: J.League)
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-8-2-2. 
Government on August 8th, 2019.
The Tokyo Capital Cap & Trade System, owned by the Fujitsu Group, has 2 sites: Fujitsu Limited "Fujitsu Solution Square" (Ota Ward,
Tokyo) and Fujitsu Semiconductor Co., Ltd. "Akiruno Technology Center" (Akiruno City, Tokyo). All the credits earned since the system's inception have been donated to the Tokyo Metropolitan Government. These credits resulted from exceeding the reduction obligation due to the replacement with improvement of air conditioning and lighting, replacement of power equipment (High- efficiency elevators, etc.), and changes in business structure.
The Fujitsu Group will continue its efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to the Tokyo Metropolitan. 
Government's efforts and the realization of a sustainable society.
 
*3 FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/microsite/fujitsu-climate-and-energy-vision/ *4 Tokyo Metropolitan Government's goal of "Zero Emissions Tokyo" *Japanese-site only http://www.kankyo.metro.tokyo.jp/policy_others/zeroemission_tokyo/index.html *5 Tokyo Metropolitan Cap and Trade System *Japanese-site only http://www.kankyo.metro.tokyo.jp/climate/large_scale/index.html. 
To provide every child with an education. 
A partnership towards helping all children attain an excellent education (India) 
Over last 5 years, Fujitsu Consulting India (FCI) has been enjoying a rewarding partnership with Teach for India (TFI), a non-profit government organization that places outstanding college graduates and working professionals as full-time teachers in under-resourced government schools.
Every year, FCI sponsors TFI fellows with an aim to eliminate educational inequity in India and help the less-privileged students compete with their counterparts in private schools, by achieving the right skill set and contemporary education.
In FY2018, FCI sponsored 17 fellows (teachers) and made a direct impact on the lives of 960 children in partnership with TFI at Pune,
Delhi, Bangalore and Hyderabad.
We will continue our support to TFI and increase the level of employee participation in social activities to help students undergo transformational change in themselves, their classroom, school and community.

Scene of the class. 
Fujitsu Solution square (Ota Ward, Tokyo) High-efficiency elevators (Fujitsu Solution square)
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-8-2-3. 
A partnership towards providing education for communities (Philippine) 
On its 25th anniversary, Fujitsu Philippines Global Delivery Center (GDC) entered into a partnership with Makabata School. 
Foundation, Inc.. Makabata School Foundation, Inc. is a not-for- profit foundation located in Pasig City that focuses on providing education for communities in extreme poverty.
We regard this partnership as an important element in realizing the vision Fujitsu aspires to be as an ICT company, in line with. 
Fujitsu's CSR framework of "Realizing a prosperous and dream- inspiring future with job satisfaction and peace of mind".
Beginning with the renovation and refurbishment of school classrooms, we then donated equipment (Routers, projector screens, projectors, LED televisions, and other library accessories) to improve the learning abilities of all students.
In 2018, as part of the Noche Buena Bonanza (Christmas event with students and faculty) initiative, PH GDC volunteer employees provided short-term education programs.
Fujitsu Philippines GDC will continue to provide educational opportunities to the children by providing continuous support to the. 
Makabata School Foundation.

Charity partner with Camp Quality (Australia) 
Fujitsu has chosen Camp Quality as its charity partner since 2015.
Camp Quality makes a real difference to children and their families living with Cancer. The services’ Camp Quality provides for children (0- 13 years) living with cancer and their families help create a better life through building optimism and resilience throughout each stage of their cancer journey.
Fujitsu donates over $100k per year to Camp Quality which supports the programs and services they deliver today. Our staff also have the opportunity to be involved in volunteering and fundraising events, amongst other positions such as Camp Quality’s NSW Revenue committee, where our Senior Marketing Manager Sue Armstrong is currently appointed.
In addition, utilizing our digital expertize, Fujitsu funded the establishment of an online volunteer portal. It enables all of their volunteers to complete e-learning and training, before becoming fully-fledged ‘vollies’.
Our support equates to over $100K each year, $27K donation+ in kind support + fundraising.

Donation Activities. 
Activities that Contribute to Society by Group Employees (Japan) 
Employees of Fujitsu Group companies voluntarily participate in everyday social contribution activities, such as collecting used plastic bottle caps, stamps and prepaid cards and donating the proceeds to polio vaccine or seedling planting projects.
Employees participate in the "sutenai seikatsu", or waste free lifestyle, activities. "Sutenai seikatsu" activities are intended to. 
Participants of Camp Quality. 
Scene of the school. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-8-2-4 support Shapla Neer (Citizen's Committee in Japan for Overseas Support), an international NGO engaged in volunteer activities, by donating the sales of used books and DVDs collected from employees.

Support for Damage from Natural Disasters. 
The Fujitsu Group is carrying out donation and contribution campaigns in order to assist with efforts to recover from the damage caused by natural disasters.
For examples of overseas cases where we donated and contributed to support natural disaster recovery, please see below (cases in. 
Japan are covered on our Japanese website) 
 FY2019  Fujitsu donated food, and hygienic materials for the affected families of the fires that occurred in the Philippines where 1,000 families were effected.
 FY2018  Fujitsu responded to Hurricane Florence which caused extensive damage in the southern part of the U.S, by raising money to donate to the Red Cross.
 Fujitsu fundraised and matched employee donations for the devastating California wildfires. Fujitsu works with. 
Australia Post to quickly restore essential services after flooding in Townsville, Queensland (More information is the following URL: https://blog.au.fujitsu.com/?p=1562)  FY2017  Fujitsu promoted initiatives to collect and deliver goods for firefighters combatting the Wildfires in Portugal  Fujitsu Donate Food and personal care products to relief for Costa Rica's Hurricane  FY2016  Fujitsu fundraise and matches the contributions in support of Italy earthquake victims. 
See the following URL for the Great East Japan earthquake disaster recovery and reconstruction support activities. (Japanese website) https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/csr/recovery/index.html. 
Contributing to Society through Sports (Japan) 
The Fujitsu Group promotes sports as a building block of a strong society. Company sports encompass the track and field team, the. 
Frontiers American football team, and the RedWave women's basketball team. These organizations share the thrill of sports while building a more prosperous society and contributing to promoting the mental and physical health of people.
We also cosponsor sports and promote initiatives to promote barrier-free minds through sports.
  See the following URL for our sponsorship and contributions to sports. (Japanse Only) https://sports-topics.jp.fujitsu.com/activity/  See the following URL for the barrier-free activities of the mind through sports. (Japanese website) https://sports-topics.jp.fujitsu.com/accessibility/ 
Cultural and Sponsorship Activities (Japan) 
See the following URL for Information on Fujitsu's cultural and sponsorship activities. (Japanese website) https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/resources/advertising/event/index.html. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-8-3-1. 
Social Contribution Activities to Develop Science and Technology. 


Support for Mathematical Olympiad and Olympiad in Informatics (Japan) 
Fujitsu supports the Mathematical Olympiad Foundation of. 
Japan and the Japanese Committee for the International. 
Olympiad in Informatics (the latter being a non-profit organization) to help discover and foster valuable human resources who will play leading roles in the future development of society. The Mathematical Olympiad Foundation of Japan was established in 1991 in order to discover gifted mathematicians for selection and entry as national representatives in the. 
International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO) and to further develop their skills. The foundation is also committed to helping improve and promote education in mathematics from an international perspective. Fujitsu provided the basic funds for the establishment of the Foundation along with two other companies and one individual.
Meanwhile, the Japanese Committee for the International Olympiad in Informatics was established in 2005 to train human resources in support of Japan's mathematics and information science sector. It provides support for participants of the International. 
Olympiad in Informatics (IOI), a programming contest for junior and senior high school students.
As a supporting member, Fujitsu provides assistance in the committee's operation.
 幅 288 px × 高さ 180px ※A4 原稿用紙用にリサイズ済
The 18th International Olympiad in Informatics awards ceremony. 
Goal. 
Long-term Goal to be achieved by FY2030. 
The Fujitsu Group will build collaborative partnerships to engage and empower communities.
We will contribute to the prosperity of the communities in which we work globally through collaboration with our business activities.
We will encourage our employees to develop their skills, have confidence, and be proud to work for Fujitsu through giving back to society.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-8-3-2. 
Macmillan pro-bono tech projects (UK) 
During a 2-year charity partnership with Macmillan, the UK’s leading cancer supporter charity, Fujitsu used its core skills to create a lasting legacy for the charity through pro-bono co-creation technology projects.
Fujitsu supported Macmillan in laying the foundations for a single technology platform to transform how volunteers give their time to the charity; this platform reaches 25,000 + users and has created transformative change for volunteers and volunteer managers.
The project has had a revolutionary impact for the charity and all work to empower those living with cancer and their families, Macmillan volunteers and employees. This work was awarded silver recognition at the Corporate Engagement Awards, 2019.

Support for Student Contests at the Kazan Aviation Institute (Russia) 
Fujitsu Russia GDC is supporting the Kazan Aviation Institute's Student. 
Initiative "ITEAM Student Project Competition".
Fujitsu employees perform master classes on “mobile programming”, “machine learning”, “project management”, “information security”, “risk management”, and other topics through master classes, and helped students submit business ideas to contests. These diverse courses improve student skills and help improve prototypes. Products created by the contest include food delivery apps, Kazan City tour apps, and Telegram Bots.
The strong relationship between Fujitsu and the University through a series of these activities will open up the possibility of students taking internships and job roles at Fujitsu in the future.

Fujitsu-JAIMS Foundation. 
The Fujitsu JAIMS is a non-profit educational foundation that provides graduate level education. Its predecessor organization, the "JAIMS" was established in Hawaii in 1972 with the objective of fostering human resources that would serve as bridges between Japan and the. 
United States. Since its establishment, it has produced about 23,000 graduates from 55 countries.
In 2012, to strengthen ties with Asia, we established the Fujitsu JAIMS. 
Foundation in Japan, and will fulfill its mission of contributing to creating a future full of richness and vision through training personnel capable of creating new value for society (innovation) in the Asia-
Pacific region.
Fujitsu has contributed working capital and has an organization within the company that has been supporting Fujitsu-JAIMS'
Participants of ITEAM Student Project Competition. 
Participants. 
Corporate Engagement Awards ceremony. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-8-3-3 activities. In addition to comprehensive support of the Foundation, Fujitsu has been coordinating with Fujitsu-JAIMS by incorporating its own practical wisdom, ICT, and expertise into the Foundation's activities. Fujitsu has thus been pushing forward with its social contribution activities, furthering promotion of academic and educational fields as well as international exchange.
  See the following URL for Fujitsu-JAIMES Foundation.
http://www.jaims.jp/en/index.html. 
Fujitsu Scholarship Program. 
Fujitsu established the Fujitsu Scholarship Program in 1985. The aim was to foster business leaders who, through their deep understanding of Japan's culture, society, and business methods, will connect Japan with the rest of the world. 542 people have received scholarships as of. 
April 1, 2018.
It now provides opportunities to participate in the Fujitsu-JAIMS. 
Foundation's program for business people in 18 countries and areas in the Asia-Pacific region.
Fujitsu is working with Fujitsu Group companies doing business in the. 
Asia-Pacific region to provide scholarships to people considering helping their country or community, and contribute to society by providing education rooted in local communities worldwide, aimed at developing business leaders and promoting cultural exchange and mutual understanding.
  See the following URL for Fujitsu Scholarship.
https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/activities/community/scholarship/ 
Fujitsu Kids Project: shaping tomorrow with children (Japan) 
Fujitsu's mission is to create new value through IT, to realize the dreams of our customers, the dreams of the Fujitsu Group, and our employees. We also believe that our mission is to help children realize their dreams, which are important treasures for the future.
We have prepared content related to school curricula and content that children can use for research and learning.
  See the following URL here for "Fujitsu Kids". (Japanese website) http://jp.fujitsu.com/about/kids/ 

幅 288 px × 高さ 180px ※A4 原稿用紙用にリサイズ済
Fujitsu Scholarship Recipients. 
Fujitsu Scholarship Recipients. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-8-4-1. 
Collaboration with External Parties 
⇩ Creating Social Value through International Sports Events ⇩ Participation in the World Business Council for Sustainable Development ⇩ Participation in the World Economic Forum. 
Creating Social Value through International Sports Events. 
Japan will host a succession of massive international sporting events in coming years, with the Rugby World Cup in 2019, Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020（Tokyo 2020 Games） and the. 
Kansai World Masters Games in 2021. This has sparked efforts across the industry, government and academic sectors aimed at ensuring that these events are a success.
By bringing together ICT and sport, with the focus on people,
Fujitsu's goal is to help build communities in which everyone can live happy, prosperous lives. Fujitsu understands the true power of sport as a vehicle for promoting the broader adoption of ICT in society through its customers, suppliers and local residents. By working to resolve social issues in this way, we believe that we are stimulating growth toward a better future for Japan, and in turn, creating new businesses and boosting our corporate value.
Building a Society where Everyone Can Live in Comfort – based on the Concept of “Barrier-Free Minds” 
The keys to success at Tokyo 2020 Games will be the work of the 100,000 volunteers planned for the event and the role of the. 
Paralympics in promoting community participation by people with disabilities. Fujitsu is boosting its social contribution programs with the aims of cultivating a corporate volunteer culture and promoting diversity, targeting full-scale implementation at the. 
Games.
To build a society that welcomes elderly citizens and citizens with disabilities, we need to do more than simply provide the physical infrastructure. It is crucial that we also eliminate attitudinal barriers and actively encourage participation in society by the elderly and disabled through the “barrier-free minds” concept.
Fujitsu is engaged in a range of initiatives, including product development related to the “barrier-free minds” concept of mutual support. The goal is to promote deeper shared understanding by enabling better communication among all kinds of people, regardless of their attitudes or their physical or psychological characteristics. Fujitsu is also undertaking training and information dissemination activities both internally and externally.
As one of the lead companies in the barrier-free sector of the All Japan Business Committee for Olympic and Paralympic Games. 
Tokyo 2020, Fujitsu is working with the entire business community to build a legacy for 2020 and beyond.
 

 

 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-8-4-2. 


Visit the web page below for information on Fujitsu’s sport-related initiatives  Fujitsu + Sport https://sports-topics.jp.fujitsu.com/index.html. 
Participation in the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. 
The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) is a body headed by the CEOs of around 200 global corporations that aims to build sustainable communities through business activities. Fujitsu. 
Chairman Masami Yamamoto has been serving as Vice Chair of the WBCSD since January 2018. The annual Council meeting held in Singapore in. 
October 2018 took “Lead, Transform, Succeed” as its theme and the ensuing discussions ranged across a variety of programs. Fujitsu highlighted not only the increased efficiencies in future employment scenarios from the standpoint of technology, but also our responses to the challenges faced by business, such as enhanced privacy and security measures, and the importance of value as it applies to people. Through these activities, Fujitsu is working toward sustainable development and the resolution of the many different issues faced by communities around the world.
WBCSD Round Table. 
In December 2018, WBCSD COE Peter Bakker visited Tokyo for a round table meeting with Council members from various Japanese companies. At the meeting, the consensus view was that, given the rapidly changing circumstances around social issues, initiatives towards sustainability are simultaneously a mission for global companies and an opportunity for growth. To ensure continued sustainable development, it was also agreed that we should further accelerate our efforts to boost collaboration both among the WBCSD member companies and with our respective governments.
  WBCSD https://www.wbcsd.org/
Helping create accessibility maps in collaboration with local government Barrier-Free Minds workshop to further mutual understanding. 
Round Table Meeting in Tokyo. 
Chairman Yamamoto speaking at the Council. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 4-8-4-3. 
Participation in the World Economic Forum. 
The World Economic Forum (WEF) is a not-for-profit foundation established by economist Klaus Schwab that engages in programs to improve the state of the world through cooperation between the public and private sectors in a spirit of global citizenship. It offers a venue for close collaboration among leaders from a diverse range of major international institutions as well as from the business world, government, academia and society, with the aim of shaping global, regional and industry-based agendas.
In January each year, the WEF holds its annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland. The Davos meetings bring together in one venue more than 3,000 leaders in their fields from around the world, including company executives, political leaders, intellectuals, and journalists, to discuss the major problems confronting the world. (The theme for the 2019 annual meeting was “Globalization 4.0:
Shaping a Global Architecture in the Age of the Fourth Industrial Revolution”.)
Fujitsu has participated in the forum since 2001, with representatives from various levels in the company - from executives down to the departmental level - engaging in a range of activities, including the Davos meetings.
During January 2019, as well as taking part in the annual meeting, top industry executives and experts were invited to a dedicated venue in central Davos. There was a lively exchange of views on a range of global issues, including “The Relationship Between. 
Advanced Technology and Ethics”, “New Ways of Working Resulting from AI Development” and “Addressing the Issues of Security and Sustainability (How Social Impacts will Manifest)”. These discussions will underpin Fujitsu’s ongoing formulation of policies aimed at helping to resolve those issues while achieving sustained growth.
  World Economic Forum https://www.weforum.org/ 

 

 

 

 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5. 

 


Governance 


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5-1-1. 
Corporate Governance ⇩ Basic Stance on Corporate Governance) ⇩ Basic Stance on Internal Control System. 
Basic Stance on Corporate Governance. 
As a resolution of the Board of Directors meeting held in December 2015, Fujitsu established the " Corporate Governance Policy'' to define the company's basic stance on corporate governance. This Policy has been deliberated and established to best fit the present company conditions; however, considering the objective of corporate governance—that is, to conduct a better management—the company strives for a continuous review for the Policy not being too rigid and not losing substance as well as discussions on the. 
Policy in the Board of Directors Meeting from time to time to maintain the best corporate governance structure. The following URL contains the latest version of the December 2018 revision.
  Corporate Governance Policy https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/ir/library/governance/governancereport-b-en.pdf. 
Overview of Corporate Governance Structure (as of June 24, 2019) 
The Company has established rules for the purpose of effectively supervising and advising the diverse perspectives of outside directors (hereinafter referred to as "outside directors and outside directors"). Conduct business operations as a member of the. 
Board of Directors while utilizing the Company by the Board of Corporate Auditors system.
For more information on“ Matters on Functions of Business Execution, Auditing, Oversight, Nomination and Remuneration. 
Decisions”and “Reasons for adoption of Current Corporate Governance System” , please see the following URL.
.
 Corporate Governance Report Ⅱ2, Matters on Functions of Business Execution, Auditing, Oversight, Nomination and Remuneration Decisions (Overview of Current Corporate Governance System) Ⅱ3, Reasons for Adoption of Current Corporate Governance System https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/ir/library/governance/governancereport-en.pdf 
.
 

 

 

 

 

 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5-1-2. 
Policy on the Determination of Executive Compensation. 
Compensation of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members is determined in accordance with the Executive Compensation. 
Policy below, which was determined by the Board of Directors following the recommendation by the Compensation Committee..
  Reports on the 119th Business Period. 
Executive Compensation Policy https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/ir/library/reports/Report119.pdf (p.17)
Basic Stance on Internal Control System. 
To continuously increase the corporate value of the Fujitsu Group, it is necessary to pursue management efficiency and control risks arising from business activities. Recognizing this, Fujitsu is working toward the practice and penetration of the FUJITSU Way, the basic principles behind the Fujitsu Group's conduct. At the same time, the Board of Directors has articulated the Policy on. 
Internal Control Framework as systems and rules to pursue management efficiency and control the risks arising from the Company's business activities.
For more information on “Full Text of Policy on the Internal Control System” and “Overview of the Operation on the System for. 
Ensuring the Properness of Fujitsu Group Operations,” please see the following URL.
  Disclosed Information on the Internet at the Internet at the Time of Notice of the 119th Annual Shareholders’ Meeting https://www.fujitsu.com/global/Images/notice119b.pdf (P.3-P.7) 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5-2-1. 
Risk Management 
⇩ Risk Management Guidelines ⇩ Risk Management & Compliance Structure ⇩ Risk Management Reviews ⇩ Business Risks ⇩ Risk Management Education ⇩ Group-Wide Disaster Management ⇩ Business Continuity Management ⇩ Results for FY2018. 
Risk Management Guidelines. 
Through its global activities in the information technology sector, the Fujitsu Group continually seeks to increase its corporate value and to contribute to all stakeholders. Management places a high priority on properly assessing and dealing with any risks that threaten the achievement of our objectives. These include preventing the occurrence of these risk events, minimizing the impact of any such events that do occur and preventing recurrence. We have also built a risk management & compliance structure for the entire group and we are committed to its ongoing implementation and improvement.
Risk Management & Compliance Structure. 
To prevent potential risks of business-related loss from transforming into actual risks, and to respond appropriately to and prevent the recurrence of any risks, the Fujitsu Group has established a Risk Management & Compliance Committee. This committee acts as the highest-level decision-making body on matters involving risk management and compliance.
The committee also assigns Risk Management Compliance Officers to each of Fujitsu’s divisions and to group companies in Japan and overseas. In April 2016, we established Regional Risk Management & Compliance Committees. These organizations collaborate to build a risk management & compliance structure for the entire Fujitsu Group, thereby guarding against potential risks and mitigating risks that have already materialized.
The Risk Management & Compliance Committee is responsible for monitoring the progress of risk management and compliance in all Fujitsu business divisions and group companies in Japan and other countries. This committee is tasked with establishing the appropriate policies and processes, as well as implementing and continually improving them. In practical terms, it determines the risk management regulations and guidelines, then applies them and reviews them on an ongoing basis.
 

 

 

 

 
Risk Management Reviews. 
The Risk Management & Compliance Committee, which maintains regular communications with Risk Management Compliance. 
Officers, identifies, analyzes and assesses the risks associated with business activities. It also checks the progress of measures. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5-2-2 designed to avoid, mitigate, transfer and accept major risks, and then formulates new measures or reviews existing measures.
The committee reports regularly to the Board of Directors regarding major risks that have been identified, analyzed and assessed.
The committee also prepares processes for dealing with risks that have eventuated despite implementation of the various preventive measures. If a critical risk arises, such as a natural disaster, product fault or defect, system or service problem, compliance violation, information security breach or environmental problem, the department or group company concerned reports immediately to the Risk Management & Compliance Committee.
This committee then coordinates with the related departments and work sites to quickly resolve the problem by taking appropriate steps, such as establishing a task force. At the same time, the committee works to identify the causes of the problem and proposes and implements measures to prevent any recurrence. For critical risks, the committee also reports as needed to the. 
Board of Directors. The Risk Management & Compliance Committee checks the progress of implementation of these processes on an ongoing basis and formulates improvements.
 

 

 

 

 
Business Risks. 
The Fujitsu Group identifies, analyzes and assesses the risks associated with business activities and works on measures to avoid or mitigate their impact and also to deal promptly with any issues that do occur.
 
*1 These are just some examples of the risks associated with doing business. More detailed risk-related information can be found in our securities and other reports. https://pr.fujitsu.com/jp/ir/secreports/
Major Business Risks（*1）  Economic and financial market trends  Customers  Competitors and the industry  Investment decisions and business restructuring  Suppliers, alliances, etc.
 Public regulations, public policy, and tax matters  Natural disasters and unforeseen incidents  Finance  Deficiencies or flaws in products and services  Compliance issues  Intellectual property  Security  Human resources  Fujitsu Group facilities and systems  Environment. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5-2-3. 
Please refer to the web page below for detailed risk information in accordance with our Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) declaration.
“Response to Environmental Risks” https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/management/ems/risk/
Risk Management Education. 
To enforce risk management across the entire Fujitsu Group, we conduct education and training at every level.
These programs are targeted at newly appointed executives and managers, as well as Risk Management Compliance Officers, and educate them on our basic approach to risk management and our rules for promptly escalating issues to the Risk. 
Management & Compliance Committee. The programs present specific instances of problems with products, services, and information security, with the aim of continually improving participants’ awareness of risk management and enhancing their capacity to respond to risks.
Please refer to the “Results for FY2018” section at the end of this document for information on education outcomes for FY2018.
Group-Wide Disaster Management. 
The basic policy of Fujitsu and its group companies in Japan is to ensure the safety of staff and facilities when disasters occur, to minimize harm and to prevent secondary disasters. We also aim to ensure that business operations resume quickly, and that we can assist in disaster recovery for our customers and suppliers. To this end, we are building robust collaborative structures in our internal organizations and strengthening our capacity for business continuity.
In particular, we are working to build “area-based disaster management systems” that enable the group offices in each region to cooperate effectively and also to encourage responses via the management structures in each business unit and group company.
To verify the efficacy of our disaster management systems and enhance our response capabilities, we conduct drills tailored to every level, from the entire company through to task forces, workplaces and even individuals. We also implement voluntary inspections and verification activities to prevent accidents and minimize the level of harm in each of our facilities. These efforts enable us to accurately identify existing issues, review and implement measures to address those issues, and work toward continually improving our capacity to prepare for disasters and sustain our business operations.
For more information on our Group-wide disaster management, joint disaster response drills and verification activities, please refer to the PDF listed below in the activity outcomes for FY2018 in the “Results for FY2018” section at the end of this document.
  Group-wide disaster management, joint disaster response drills, verification activities https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/riskmanagement/Group_Wide_Disaster_Management_20190628v1.pdf. 
Business Continuity Management. 
Recent years have seen a significant increase in the risk of unforeseen events that threaten continued economic and social activity. Such events include earthquakes, floods and other large-scale natural disasters, disruptive incidents or accidents, and pandemics involving infectious diseases.
To ensure that Fujitsu and its group companies in Japan can continue to provide a stable supply of products and services offering the high levels of performance and quality that customers require, even when such unforeseen circumstances occur, we have formulated a Business Continuity Plan (BCP). We are also promoting Business Continuity Management (BCM) as a way of continually reviewing and improving our BCP. Through the BCM process, the lessons learned in the course of the Great East Japan. 
Earthquake and the 2016 Kumamoto earthquake are now reflected in our BCP.
For more information on our BCM activities, infectious disease countermeasures and BCM in our supply chain, please refer to the. 
PDF listed below in the activity outcomes for FY2018 in the “Results for FY2018” section at the end of this document.
  BCM activities, infectious disease countermeasures, supply chain BCM https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/riskmanagement/BCM_20190624v1.pdf. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5-2-4. 
Results for FY2018. 
Risk Management Education 
 Fujitsu Group new executive training: Approximately 90 people. 
Uses specific examples to illustrate key points that new executives need to take note of, including internal regulatory systems and issues relating to risk management and compliance.
 Fujitsu Group new manager training: Approximately 700 people. 
An e-learning course that covers areas such as the basic approach to risk management and the role of managers regarding risk management.
 Training for Japan-based Fujitsu and group company staff prior to assignment outside Japan: 10 sessions. 
Provides employees assigned to roles outside Japan with information and training in advance on Fujitsu’s risk management systems and the key points of overseas-specific risks and how to deal with those risks.
Disaster Management & BCM Training 
 Joint disaster response drills: Theme for FY2018 - “Nankai Trough Megathrust Earthquake”
During Japan’s annual Disaster Preparedness Week, held every September, we conduct nationwide disaster response drills that incorporate mock disaster exercises. These drills are used to ensure and verify that Fujitsu and its group companies in. 
Japan are fully versed in the essentials of dealing collaboratively with major disasters. (Proposed scenarios include “Tokyo. 
Inland Earthquake” and “Nankai Trough Megathrust Earthquake”) 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5-3-1. 
Information Security 
⇩ Policy ⇩ Promotion Framework and Periodic Reviews ⇩ Security Controls ⇩ Security Measures ⇩ FY 2018 Performance. 
Policy. 
The Fujitsu Group places ICT as our core business. Our corporate vision is to contribute to creating a safe, pleasant, networked society, we work to ensure and improve the level of information security throughout the Group.
In April 2016, we established the Fujitsu Group Information Security Policy（*1） in order to share this vision and encourage action by each employee. Based on this policy, we are implementing information security measures, along with establishing internal rules related to information management and ICT security at Group companies in Japan and overseas.
 *1 Complete text of the Fujitsu Group Information Security Policy (Global Security Policy) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/imagesgig5/InformationSecurityPolicy_en.pdf. 
KEIDANREN, otherwise known as the Japan Business Federation, announced its Declaration of Cyber Security Management in. 
March 2018. The Fujitsu Group supports KEIDANREN’s declaration as being consistent with principles set forth in the Fujitsu Cyber. 
Security Declaration (November 2016).
  KEIDANREN’s DECLARATION OF CYBER SECURITY MANAGEMENT https://www.keidanren.or.jp/en/policy/2018/018.pdf  The Fujitsu Declaration on Cybersecurity https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/security/Cybersecurity_declaration.pdf. 
Promotion Framework and Periodic Reviews. 
Given the recent increase in cyberattacks, the Fujitsu Group appointed a Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) under the authority of the Risk Management and Compliance Committee （*2） in order to further strengthen security measures in the. 
Group. Moreover, in aiming to strengthen our global information security governance we have appointed Regional CISOs around the world.
 *2 Message from the Fujitsu Group Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) (page 2) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/resources/reports/securityreport/ 
Regional CISOs report to the CISO on information security measures implemented by security teams at each group company. The. 
CISO periodically reports to the Risk Management and Compliance Committee on the status of information security measures, and also makes additional reports whenever necessary.
 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5-3-2. 
Security Controls. 
Functions. 
In order to strengthen information security measures, the Fujitsu. 
Group has established a Security Management Organization under the direct control of the CISO. The Security Management. 
Organization implements controls by fulfilling the following functions: Security Management, Security Measure. 
Implementation, Monitoring, Analysis, and Evaluation, and. 
Incident and Response.
 


Information Management Training. 
To prevent information leaks, instead of simply informing our employees of the various rules and regulations, it is important to raise the security awareness and skill level of each individual employee. The Fujitsu Group holds information management training for employees. Specifically, we hold e-Learning for all employees (including executives) every year. We also provide information security education during training for new employees and employees being promoted. At overseas Group companies, we hold information security training for employees every year.
We also provide information security managers with special security training for managers. e-Learning. 
Security Measures. 
Three Important Measures Incorporating the Concept of Defense in Depth. 
The cyberattacks in recent years are prime examples of targeted attacks. These attacks have an unprecedented level of sophistication, diversity, and complexity. It is no longer possible to achieve comprehensive defense by using single types of conventional security measures.
The basic concept of information security measures at the Fujitsu Group incorporates defense in depth. This refers to implementing multilayer protection via multiple measures, instead of seeking protection through a single measure. Defense in depth has three objectives: 1) to prevent attacks by establishing a multilayer defense wall, 2) to discover attacks at an early stage by establishing a multilayer detection function, and 3) to minimize damage in the event of infiltration.
Appropriate implementation of these objectives makes it possible to prevent attacks and minimize damage.
The Fujitsu Group implements the following three priority internal information security measures: 1) information management for protecting information, 2) cybersecurity which focuses on measures for protecting systems against cyberattacks, and 3) physical security which prevents unauthorized access to facilities such as offices and plants.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5-3-3. 

 

 

 

 

 

Cybersecurity. 
The Fujitsu Group implements separate measures at multiple layers based on network characteristics to prepare for cyberattacks.
We are working to protect against increasingly sophisticated, diverse, and complex cyberattacks by combining gateway security measures, including firewalls and targeted attack measures; network security measures, such as unauthorized access detection; and endpoint security measures, including malware measures and security patch management.

Information Protection Management Systems. 
Fujitsu and its domestic Group companies implement autonomous activities at work sites to properly safeguard third- party confidential information and our confidential information.
Specifically, these include establishing appropriate management and taking action to protect information. Activities are designed to match circumstances at different customers and clients; for example, we consider rules for different industries and business categories. We also conduct audits by in-house, third-party organizations. In this way, we work to build information protection management systems to confirm the status of initiatives and improve protection of information.

Personal Information Protection. 
As part of our efforts to protect personal information, Fujitsu acquired the PrivacyMark（*3） from. 
JIPDEC in August 2007. We are also working to continually enhance our personal information protection, including annual training and audits on personal information handling.
Domestic Group companies also acquire the PrivacyMark as needed and implement thorough personal information management. Privacy policies based on the laws and social demands of each country are posted on the websites of overseas Group companies.
*3 The PrivacyMark is granted to business operators that appropriately handle personal information under personal information management systems that conform to JIS Q 15001:2006.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5-3-4. 
GDPR（*4）Response. 
Fujitsu has constructed a global personal information protection structure and is working to strengthen protection of personal data. Under the guidance of the CISO organization and legal business units, we have cooperated with entities such as the EMEIA region to develop guidelines and internal rules related to protection of individual rights in response to GDPR. We have also designed check sheets for the formulation, design, and initial setting of rules. Furthermore, we have updated the operation process with the rules and held employee training.
In response to regulations on transfer of personal data outside of the EU, we applied to the Dutch Data Protection Authority (DPA) in December 2017 for our Binding Corporate Rules for Processors (BCR-P), which are common rules established across the. 
Fujitsu Group related to the handling of personal data that customers have entrusted to the Group for processing.
On January 23, 2019, the European Commission and Japan mutually recognized each other’s data protection laws as providing an adequate level of protection. Based on this recognition, Fujitsu established internal rules related to the handling of personal information moved between regions, and spread awareness regarding those rules.
 *4 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR): The GDPR (EU regulations requiring companies, organizations, and groups to protect personal information) was enacted on May 25, 2018. It includes regulations on transferring personal data out of the European Economic Area and the obligation to report data leaks within 72 hours.
 
For details on other security measures, please refer to the Fujitsu Group Information Security Report 2018 (pages 8 to 13).
https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/resources/reports/securityreport/ 
Information System Certification. 
The Fujitsu Group is actively working to acquire third-party evaluations and certifications in its information security initiatives.
 Third-Party Evaluation and Certification https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/security/Third-party_Evaluation_and_Certification_20190628v1.pdf. 
FY 2018 Performance. 
Information management education  Company-wide e-learning education for information management (targeted Fujitsu employees: 35,100): Trained employees: 34,708 (99% attendance ratio)  E-learning for newly-appointed managers (Fujitsu): 700 managers  Introductory education and e-learning for new employees (Fujitsu): 930 new employees. 
Please refer to the following URLs for details on information security in the Fujitsu Group.
  Fujitsu Group Information Security Report 2018 https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/resources/reports/securityreport/  Cyber Security https://www.fujitsu.com/global/themes/security/ 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5-4-1-1. 
Quality Initiatives 
⇩ Quality Policy ⇩ Our Approach to Promoting Quality Assurance ⇩ Improving Quality Assurance: Quality Management System ⇩ FY 2018 Performance. 
Quality Policy. 
In addition to establishing a corporate philosophy and charter that applies to all products/services, we have also established regulations and standards to uphold customer requests and the various features of our products/services. These are all based on the Fujitsu Way.
The Fujitsu Global Quality Policy is a way of thinking, shared across the entire Group, that was established in order to implement the Fujitsu Way philosophy, “Quality: We enhance the reputation of our customers and the reliability of social infrastructure.”
This quality policy was established in order to continue providing our customers with products/services that they can feel secure using, but also to define quality as a foundational part of our business, and come to a shared understanding of the policy worldwide.

Fujitsu Global Quality Policy 1. We pursue quality from the customer’s perspective.
2. We ensure quality to support safety and security.
3. We engage in quality improvements together with our business partners.
4. We have constructed a quality management and quality assurance system and we continuously engage in quality improvement activities.

Fujitsu has established the Fujitsu Group Quality Charter, as well as five quality-related regulations (Shipment, Registration, and. 
Release Regulations, Safety Promotion Regulations, etc.), in order to implement the Fujitsu Global Quality Policy.
All of our measures, from planning to design to evaluation, production, sales, and even follow-up support, are based on this charter and these regulations. This is necessary in order to continue providing products/services that stay one step ahead of our customers and any changes in their business landscapes.
  Establishment of quality policy, rules, and regulations. 
Fujitsu Quality: Your Safety and Security (Page 4) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/society/quality/Fujitsu_Quality_Your_Safety_and_Security.pdf. 

 

 

 

 

 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5-4-1-2. 
Implementation Policy for the Safety of Our Products and Services. 
The Fujitsu Group recognizes its social responsibility to contribute to building a safe and secure society. The Fujitsu Group always considers and endeavors to improve the safety of products and services in every aspect of the group's business activities.
 1. Observation of laws and regulations. 
We observe laws and regulations concerning product and service safety.
2. Efforts to secure safety. 
We try to ensure that products and services are safe in a variety of use situations and take measures as necessary to secure the safety of the products and services. In addition to legally specified safety standards, we develop and observe voluntary safety standards in our endeavors to improve products and services continuously.
3. Prevention of incidents caused by improper use, etc.
For the safe use of products and services by customers, we properly display notices and warnings in handbooks or on the body of the products in order to prevent incidents caused by improper use or carelessness.
4. Collection of incident information, etc.
We actively collect safety-related information from customers, including information on product and service incidents and what might lead to such an incident.
5. Handling of incidents. 
We immediately check the facts of any occurring incident related to a product or service, investigate the cause, and handle it properly. If the product or service has a safety problem, we provide that information to customers and take proper measures, such as product recall, service recovery, and prevention of further damage and other damage from occurring. We quickly report the occurrence of major product incidents to the proper authorities in accordance with laws.
Our Approach to Promoting Quality Assurance. 
In addition to working with individual divisions and regions with regards to their quality assurance efforts, we also coordinate across the entire Group to share knowledge and information that transcend organizational boundaries. This helps us make better use of these efforts, and allows us to solve quality assurance issues that are shared across organizations.
This sharing of effective quality assurance efforts increases the overall quality of Fujitsu’s products/services, helps prevent the occurrence and reoccurrence of issues, and allows us to work toward consistent, optimal quality for our customers all over the world.
In order to ensure the promotion of these efforts Group-wide, we have selected Quality Management Representatives from relevant divisions both in Japan and overseas, through official. 
HR announcements. These representatives will act as leaders, always participating in and helping implement Group-wide quality assurance efforts. They are led by the Corporate Quality. 
Management Unit, an organization that operates independently of our divisions.
  Quality assurance promotion system. 
Fujitsu Quality: Your Safety and Security (Page 5) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/society/quality/Fujitsu_Quality_Your_Safety_and_Security.pdf. 
System for Addressing Major Quality Issues. 
In the event of a major quality issue in our products/services, our executives and/or employees report the issue immediately to the. 
Risk Management & Compliance Committee, in accordance with risk management regulations. The committee then reports the. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5-4-1-3 issue to the Division Head, in line with the pre-established reporting structure. The Division Head delivers reports as necessary to the Risk Management & Compliance Committee, keeping them up-to-date on the handling of the issue, and follows the instructions (if any) from the committee. Once a solution has been established, the Division Head files a report to the committee describing the circumstances around this newly-surfaced risk, measures to prevent such an issue from reoccurring, and more. The. 
Risk Management & Compliance Committee can then instruct the Division Head to file this report to them, the Board of Directors, and/or the Management Council.
Marking and Labeling of Products and Services Regarding Quality and Safety. 
Fujitsu is dedicated to observing all laws and internal regulations related to marking and labeling of products and services regarding quality and safety.
Improving Quality Assurance: Quality Management System. 
To consistently provide products and services that meet customer needs and expectations, it is essential to coordinate both internally (among the business units involved in product and service projects, planning, development, production and testing; the field business units involved in operation and maintenance; and the various common business units that support them) and externally (business partners, sales units and sales bases). It is also essential to have a platform to unify these systems and mechanisms.
This is why we built our Quality Management System (QMS): to coordinate among these business units as appropriate for the product or service. QMS periodically verifies the progress of the PDCA cycle in light of international certification standards such as the ISO in the aim of achieving process improvements to realize even higher quality.
  Our quality support framework. 
Fujitsu Quality: Your Safety and Security (Page 3) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/society/quality/Fujitsu_Quality_Your_Safety_and_Security.pdf. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5-4-1-4. 
FY 2018 Performance. 
Disclosure of Information Related to Product Safety 
 Number of disclosed issues: 2 major product incidents (laptop battery ignition)* *With regards to this accident, Fujitsu has followed the relevant laws and regulations (Consumer Product Safety Act) appropriately, and reported to the Consumer Affairs Agency, as well as posted the contents on its website.
 Prevention Measures for Laptop Battery Ignition Incidents. 
On three previous occasions, Fujitsu has asked customers to exchange and return battery packs in order to prevent the spread of ignition incidents due to the possibility that foreign matter had contaminated the interior of the battery during the battery pack manufacturing process.
At the same time, however, although extremely rare, there have been cases of ignition occurring in battery packs outside those covered by the returns and exchanges.
It has been found that limiting the phenomena that increase the internal pressure of batteries is an effective measure in preventing these types of ignition incidents.
Since February 9, 2017, Fujitsu has been offering a "Battery Charging Control Update Tool" through its website for its laptop. 
PCs launched between 2010 and 2016. In addition, since November 2018, Fujitsu has been distributing the Battery. 
Charging Control Update Tool via Microsoft’s Windows Update service to the laptop PCs of all those affected in order to ensure all customers using the affected laptop PCs apply the update.
Marking and Labeling of Products and Services Regarding Quality and Safety. 
We experienced no marking or labeling violations related to products or safety.
ISO9001 / ISO20000 Certification Status. 
Fujitsu is continuously working to improve processes under the QMS.
 ISO9001: 30 divisions certified  ISO20000: 8 divisions certified. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5-4-2-1. 
Working With Our Customers. 
Improving Customer Satisfaction. 
Our current era is characterized by dizzying levels of social and economic change, and it seems impossible to predict what will come about in the future. In this kind of landscape, it is vital that we maintain an accurate understanding of our customers’ various needs, and adapt quickly to changes as they arise. In order to accomplish this, we must think and behave from the customer perspective, and engage continuously in reform.
Working with the Customer to Drive Field Innovation. 
Field Innovation is the process of getting down to the customers’ level, observing the behaviors and mentalities that drive people, and recognizing previously unnoticed factors—for instance, an opportunity for reform, or unnecessary parts of certain processes.
Through Field Innovation, we work to maximize the value of ICT, and advance/expand our customers’ businesses.
This process happens through our Field Innovators (FIers), and their work with the customers. These are individuals who have built up their careers in various business areas, and who are skilled at advancing reform, utilizing visualization technologies, and consensus building. They work as a team, delving into customer work sites to discern the intentions of those in high-level management, and clarifying workplace issues through on-site interviews and visualization processes. They also help the customer solve their issues through a third-party perspective.
  FY 2018 Field Innovation Performance: 298 cases  Field Innovation https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/businesspolicy/fieldinnovation/en/  Field Innovation Case Studies https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/businesspolicy/fieldinnovation/en/case-studies/
The Fujitsu Customer Contact Center and Fujitsu Contact Line. 
Both the Fujitsu Customer Contact Center and the Fujitsu Contact Line allow us to gain an accurate understanding of customer inquiries, and quickly transfer customer inquiries to the relevant division. They also work as a form of surveillance, helping prevent missed and late responses. These improve customer satisfaction by facilitating quick responses, and also allow us to analyze customer inquiries so that we can improve the development and quality of our products and services. We also have an international coordination system in place for these points of contact, in order to facilitate smooth communication both domestically and internationally.
 

 

 

 


Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5-4-2-2. 

 

 

 

 

Qfinity. 
Qfinity is a Fujitsu Group program that encourages reform in order to improve the quality of products/services and work in general. The program is individually-focused, emphasizing the importance of each and every employee as the Group works to establish greater customer value for its products/services. The name Qfinity is a combination of the words “Quality” and “Infinity,” and expresses the Fujitsu Group vision of each and every employee, pursuing infinite quality.
The various reform efforts made in the Fujitsu Group are implemented and shared under the Qfinity umbrella, and passed on as part of the Group’s vision. Qfinity also encourages each and every employee to practice the principles of the Fujitsu Way (Global. 
Citizenship, Customer-Centric Perspective, Firsthand Understanding, Spirit of Challenge, Speed and Agility, and Teamwork), through persistent reform efforts.
The Fujitsu Group also holds educational programs and awards ceremonies, and encourages the sharing and dissemination of information and case studies, in order to promote Qfinity group-wide.
 
 Awards Ceremonies and Events. 
Domestic participants of Qfinity (FY 2015: 55 => FY 2016: 63 => FY 2017: 72 => FY 2018: 71)
Overseas participants of Qfinity (FY 2015: 13 => FY 2016: 17 / FY 2017: 24 / FY 2018: 16)  Fujitsu’s Quality Improvement Model: Qfinity (Leaflet) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/society/customers/Fujitsu_Quality_Improvement_Activities_Qfinity.pdf. 
The Fujitsu Family Association (ICT User Coalition) 
The Fujitsu Family Association aims to encourage discussion of thoughts and values related to ICT, and help member companies solve ICT-related issues within their organizations. The association is run primarily by its members, with Fujitsu providing support. 
Qfinity Award Convention Qfinity leaflet. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 5-4-2-3 for its various efforts. It is made up of approximately 4,200 companies/organizations, and is Japan’s largest ICT user coalition, providing opportunities to socialize and share valuable information for both Fujitsu and the member organizations. Through these efforts, the Fujitsu Family Association has contributed greatly to the building of lasting relationships among its members.
The activity of the Fujitsu Family Association is based largely on efforts made by its branches. There are more than 500 of these efforts made annually, and they include such things as ICT-related seminars, personnel training, and locally-oriented social events. Advertising and Promotion Policy. 
At Fujitsu, we work to make sure that our advertising makes use of fair and appropriate language and symbols, and are in adherence to laws, regulations, and in-house rules. In FY 2019, we plan to promote the efforts we have made to collaborate with customer businesses using our strength in digital technologies, and make these efforts more widely known to the public. We also set goals (KPIs) and monitor these indices via the PDCA cycle to see if they have been achieved, in order to determine whether our advertising policies have been effective/cost-effective.
Due to changes in the Fujitsu business model, we have also not had products and/or services that would fall under the regulation of the Act Against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Representations.
Fujitsu offer contact lines where the general public can voice their opinions about our advertisements. We take all of these opinions to heart, respond quickly and accurately if necessary, and work to keep communication open at all times. Universal Design. 
At the Fujitsu Group, we encourage the use of ICT Universal Design, to help create a more safe, secure, comfortable, and plentiful society.

Fujitsu’s Vision of Universal Design. 
Fujitsu aims to innovate and create a future capable of solving various social issues, by gaining an understanding of a wide variety of people, adapting to changes in the landscape, and utilizing ICT technologies. Our goal is to use the power of ICT to realize a society where everyone—regardless of nationality, age, gender, or impairment—is able to express themselves and their individuality as much as possible.
In order to promote this vision within the Group, we asked a professional organization to create a universal design guideline for system development, and have encouraged complete adherence to this guideline within the Group.
  Fujitsu’s Vision of Universal Design https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/businesspolicy/tech/design/policy/ud/  FY 2018 Efforts Toward Universal Design. 
We received six International Design Award 2018 awards (Grand Prize, and five other prizes) from the International. 
Association for Universal Design (IAUD). This award is given to individuals/organizations who have achieved particularly outstanding ideas or results, towards the realization of a UD society that is secure and comfortable for as many people as possible.
 IAUD International Design Award 2018 (Award Details) https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/group/fdl/awards/#y2018iaud. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 6. 

 


Data and Documents 


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 6-1-1. 
External Recognition and Awards. 
Fujitsu continues to be highly regarded throughout the world for its social and environmental initiatives, which have won awards from external organizations and led to inclusion in the following stock market indexes.
 ⇩ Inclusion status for major stock market indexes related to Socially Responsible Investment (SRI)) ⇩ Major external awards received (from FY 2018 onward) ⇩ Past recognition and awards. 
Inclusion status for major stock market indexes related to Socially. 
Responsible Investment (SRI) 
Stock market index Description Logo. 
Dow Jones Sustainability. 
Indices (World, Asia. 
Pacific)
Highly regarded as a global index for SRI, this index evaluates 2,500 companies around the world in terms of corporate economic, environmental, and social performance, and recognizes the top 10% of them as DJSI World. Fujitsu has been included in the index for seven consecutive years, and 19 times overall.

RobecoSAM. 
Sustainability Award 2,500 major companies from around the world are evaluated for their economic, environmental, and social sustainability, and companies that are particularly outstanding among the top 10% in terms of CSR are awarded Gold Class, Silver Class, and Bronze Class ratings. Fujitsu was awarded a Bronze Class rating.

FTSE4Good Index Series. 
FTSE is an investment-related organization established by the London Stock Exchange which has created this globally- recognized SRI index that evaluates companies based on their environmental, social and governance practices. Fujitsu has been selected for inclusion in the index for nine consecutive years.

CDP. 
International non-profit organization CDP represents a network of institutional investors that control over $100 trillion in assets. CDP scores over 5,000 companies throughout the world on their environmental action and identifies those that it rates highest as the “A List.” Fujitsu has earned a spot on the A List for action on climate change for two consecutive years.

MSCI ESG Select Leaders. 
Indexes (World, Japan)
These world-renowned ESG (Environmental, Social,
Governmental) indexes were developed by global stock index provider MSCI. Companies with outstanding ESG performance are selected for the indexes, and Fujitsu has been included for nine years running.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 6-1-2. 
STOXX® Global ESG. 
Leaders. 
This index compiled by STOXX, a subsidiary of Deutsche. 
Börse, selects companies that meet criteria based on the results of research by ESG research company Sustainalytics from the Netherlands. Fujitsu has been included in the index for five consecutive years.

ISS-oekom Corporate. 
Rating. 
Germany-based CSR ratings company ISS-oekom produces these corporate responsibility ratings which rate companies according to environment, social, and governance topics. The ratings have conferred Prime Status on Fujitsu since 2011.
Ethibel Sustainability. 
Index (ESI) (Excellence. 
Register)
The Ethibel Excellence Investment Register is an investment universe managed by Forum Ethibel, an NPO headquartered in Belgium. The Ethibel Sustainability Index is comprised of companies from this register which demonstrate superior performance from a CSR perspective. Fujitsu has been included in the index from 2013 through 2016, and in 2018.

Euronext Vigeo Index -
World 120. 
This sustainability ratings index by the world’s largest securities trading group NYSE Euronext and European CSR performance ratings company Vigeo Eiris selects the stocks of the 120 companies with the best environmental, social, and corporate governance performance. Fujitsu was included from 2013 through 2015, and in 2017, and 2018.

Major external awards received (from FY 2018 onward) 
Award Month/Year Organizer Awarded For. 
Named by Fortune Magazine of the US as one of the World’s. 
Most Admired Companies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/resources/news/press- releases/2019/0206-01.html. 
February 2019. 
Fortune Magazine,
USA. 
Fujitsu corporate activities 2018 Energy Conservation Grand Prize. 
Prize of the Director General, Agency for Natural Resources and Energy https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/resources/news/press- releases/2019/0118-01.html. 
January 2019. 
The Energy. 
Conservation. 
Center, Japan. 
Supported by:
Ministry of. 
Economy, Trade and. 
Industry. 
Immersion cooling system 2018 Environment Minister’s Award for Global Warming. 
Prevention Activities https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/resources/news/press- releases/2018/1114-01.html. 
November 2018. 
Ministry of the. 
Environment. 
Immersion cooling system. 
Received the Award for Best Business Practices at. 
EcoBalance 2018 https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/resources/news/press- releases/2018/1102-01.html. 
November 2018. 
EcoBalance 2018 (13th Biennial. 
International. 
Conference on. 
EcoBalance)
Initiatives relating to evaluating the environmental impact of data center energy and resource use 28th Nikkei Global Environmental Technology Award https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/resources/news/pressOctober 2018 Nikkei Inc. Development of an animal habitat survey. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 6-1-3 releases/2018/1031-02.html 
system that uses sound data. 
Received Green Legacy certification from the Social and. 
Environmental Green Evaluation System (SEGES) http://pr.fujitsu.com/jp/news/2018/10/22.html. 
October 2018. 
Social and. 
Environmental. 
Green Evaluation. 
System. 
Green conservation activities. 
Numazu Plant. 
Received the award for excellence at the Environmental. 
Leadership Development Awards http://pr.fujitsu.com/jp/news/2018/04/6.html. 
April 2018. 
Ministry of the. 
Environment,
Environmental. 
Consortium for. 
Leadership. 
Development. 
Outstanding efforts in environmentally- conscious human resources development. 
Past recognition and awards. 
Contents Fiscal Year Detail Logo. 
Chosen for the Diversity Management. 
Selection 100. 
FY 2013. 
Fujitsu was recognized by the. 
Ministry of Economy, Trade and. 
Industry as a company that promotes diversity, creates innovation, generates value, and employs diverse human resources.

Selected as a Nadeshiko Brand FY 2015. 
Fujitsu was selected as a. 
Nadeshiko Brand in FY 2015 by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock. 
Exchange for being a company that actively encourages women’s success in the workplace.

Eruboshi (level 3) certification FY 2016. 
Under the provisions of the Act on. 
Promotion of Women’s. 
Participation and Advancement in the Workplace, the Minister of. 
Health, Labour and Welfare certified Fujitsu as a company with excellent performance in promoting women’s success in the workplace.
 


Pride Index Gold Award FY 2016, 2017. 
Non-profit group Work with Pride presented Fujitsu with its Gold. 
Award as a company that satisfies all elements of its Pride Index,
Japan’s first index that measures. 
LGBT-related efforts of companies and organizations.
 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 6-2-1. 
Social Data *Items listed in the third party verification report.
⇩ Employees in Fujitsu group ⇩ Board of Directors ⇩ Diversity ⇩ Employment ⇩ Using the Care Leave and Short Work Hours system ⇩ Occupational Safety and Health ⇩ Human Resource Development. 
Employees in Fujitsu group. 
FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 GRI Standards. 
No.
Number of employees by region*
Total 155,069 140,365 132,138. 
G102-7,8,
Japan 98,447 97,476 85,347. 
Asia 17,209 12,376 10,488. 
Oceania 3,422 3,137 2,926. 
Americas 7,821 5,867 5,262. 
EMEIA 28,170 26,509 28,115. 
Number of. 
Employees by Type of Contract （person）
Full-time 155,069 140,365 132,138. 
Non Full-time*1 16,307 15,883 12,990 *1 Including fixed term employees (contracted, part-time, etc.) and excluding dispatched workers.

Board of Directors（As of June 24, 2019） 
End of June, 2017 End of June, 2018. 
End of June, 2019. 
GRI Standards. 
No.
Directors. 
Total 10 10 10. 
G405-1,
Male 8 8 8. 
Female 2 2 2. 
External directors 4 4 4. 
Non-Japanese directors 1 1 0. 


Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 6-2-2. 
Diversity (Fujitsu Limited) 
FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 GRI Standards. 
No.
Number of employees*
Total 33,095 32,969 31,827. 
G405-1,
Average age* 43.1 43.3 43.2. 
Number of employees by age group* 
Under 30 4,281 4,337 4,432 30-49 18,875 17,655 16,287 50 and over 9,939 10,977 11,108. 
Number of employees by gender (person）
Male 27,754 27,462 26,397. 
Female 5,347 5,507 5,430. 
Ratio of female employees (%) 16.1% 16.7% 17.1%
Ratio of female managers (%)* 5.24% 5.71% 6.15%
Ratio of newly appointed female managers (%) (qualified personnel) 10.1% 11.3% 11.5%
Number of non-Japanese employees (person) 343 383 391. 
Trend in employment rate of people with disabilities (%)*（counted in every June） 2.00% 2.15% 2.28%
Employment (Fujitsu Limited) 
FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 GRI Standards. 
No.
Hiring of Recent. 
College Graduates (person)
Total* 740 750 750. 
G401-1 Male 480 530 510. 
Female 250 220 240. 
Average year of service*
Total 20.0 19.4 19.2. 
Male 20.6 20.0 19.9. 
Female 17.2 16.4 16.0. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 6-2-3. 
Using the Care Leave and Short Work Hours system (Fujitsu Limited) 
FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 GRI Standards. 
No.
Number of employees using child care leave*
Total 336 425 442. 
G401-3,
Male 38 42 60. 
Female 298 383 382. 
Return to work rate after child care leave (%)
Total 98.5% 98.4% 99.5%
Male 100% 100% 100%
Female 98.3% 98.3% 99.4%
Continuous work rate after child care leave (%)
Total 98.2% 98.3% 97.8%
Male 100% 93.3% 83.3%
Female 96.0% 98.8% 98.8%
Number of employees using family care leave*
Total 14 7 17. 
Male 10 4 12. 
Female 4 3 5. 
Return to work rate after family care leave (%) 100% 100% 95.0%
Continuous work rate after family care leave (%) 97.1% 92.3% 71.4%
Reduced working hours (child care) l*
Total 789 871 841. 
Male 16 21 19. 
Female 773 850 822. 
Reduced working hours (family care) *
Total 17 13 9. 
Male 7 6 3. 
Female 10 7 6. 
Paternity leave* 482 652 585. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 6-2-4. 
Occupational Safety and Health (Fujitsu Limited)
FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 GRI Standards. 
No.
Frequency rate* 0.08 0.18 0.28. 
G403-2,
Severity (rate) 0.000 0.000 0.000. 
Frequency rate: Number of accidents requiring off-time from work ÷ Total Working hours × 1,000,000. 
Severity (rate) : Last Labor days ÷ Total Working hours × 1,000. 
Human Resource Development ※Until FY2016 Fujitsu Limited, in FY2017 and FY 2018, Fujitsu and domestic Group companies(excluding some)
FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 GRI Standards. 
No.
Average Hours. 
Dedicated to. 
Training Per. 
Employee (Fujitsu)
Total 55.7 45.3 49.9. 
G404-1 Executive. 
Employees 39.8 34.8 31.9. 
Ordinary. 
Employees 59.9 49.4 53.8. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 7-1. 
Fujitsu Group Profile (as of March 31, 2019) 
Company Name Fujitsu Limited. 
Addresses ●Kawasaki Main Office 4-1-1 Kamikodanaka, Nakahara-ku,
Kawasaki-shi, Kanagawa 211-8588,
Japan ●Headquarters. 
Shiodome City Center 1-5-2 Higashi-
Shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105- 7123, Japan. 
Representative Director President Takahito Tokita *As of June 24, 2019. 
Established June 20, 1935. 
Main Business Activities. 
Manufacture and sale of communications systems, information processing systems, and electronic devices, and the provision of services related to those products. 
Capital ¥324.6 billion. 
Total Assets ¥3,104.8billion (Liabilities: ¥1,851.2billion,
Net assets: ¥1,253.6 billion)
Fiscal Year-end March 31. 
Employees Consolidated 132,138/
Unconsolidated: 31,827. 
Directors 10 (incl. 2 female directors and 4 outside directors, as of June 24, 2019)
Consolidated Subsidiaries 411 companies. 
Equity-method Affiliates 26 companies. 
Stock Exchange Listings Tokyo, Nagoya. 

Regarding Our Business Segments. 
The Fujitsu Group provides a wide range of services and products with the advanced technology, high performance and high quality essential for the future of the ICT sector, and operates an integrated total solutions business, from the development, manufacture and sale of those products and electronic devices to the provision of maintenance services.
Break down of Revenue by Business Segment. 
Note: Revenue include intersegment sales. 
Ubiquitous Solutions The Ubiquitous Solutions segment provides corporate PCs and mobile phones.
arrows NX F-01K arrows Be F-04K. 
Technology Solutions The Technology Solutions segment provides corporate customers around the globe with IT-driven business solutions based on our advanced technology and high-quality system platforms and services.

Data center (Tatebayashi)
Device Solutions The Device Solutions segment provides LSI devices for digital consumer electronics, automobiles, mobile phones and servers, as well as semiconductor packages and other electronic components. The segment also offers electronic components, such as batteries, relays and connectors.
64k bit FR「MB85RS64VY」
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 7-2. 

 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 8-1. 
Financial & Non-Financial Highlights. 

 

 

 

 

 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 9-1. 
Sustainability Data Book Framework ⇩ Our Sustainability Website and Data Book ⇩ Guidelines Referenced ⇩ Reporting Period ⇩ Target Readership ⇩ Organizations Covered ⇩ About Third Party Verification ⇩ Contact. 
Our Sustainability Website and Data Book. 
Fujitsu established a sustainability website in FY 2019 in order to disclose non-financial information from the “Fujitsu Group. 
Integrated Report” in more detail. Through this website, we are able to update our sustainability information in a more timely manner.
We will also begin release of our “Sustainability Data Book,” a PDF that contains the information on our website, every year at the end of September, in order to leave a record of the information that has been disclosed.
 

 

 

 

 

 
Guidelines Referenced ・GRI Standards ・Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012/2018 versions / Ministry of the Environment) ・UN Global Compact ・ISO26000 
 Comparison Table of Guidelines Referenced (GRI / UN Global Compact) https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/csr/guideline. 
Reporting Period. 
This website focuses on activities in FY 2018, from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019, and the data presented is actual performance data from that period. However, information from up to the end of September 2019 is also presented if it is a part of important announcements regarding sustainability.
 
Information Disclosure System at Fujitsu. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 9-2. 
Target Readership. 
This report is written assuming the following readership: Fujitsu stakeholders including customers, employees, stockholders/investors, suppliers/business partners, international society/local communities, and public institutions/governments.
Organizations Covered. 
Description of social fields of this data book generally refers to the Fujitsu Group as a whole.
“Fujitsu” in the text refers to Fujitsu, Ltd., “Fujitsu Group” refers to Fujitsu, Ltd. and its consolidated subsidiaries inside and outside of Japan, and “Fujitsu and its domestic Group companies” refers to Fujitsu, Ltd. and its consolidated subsidiaries in Japan.
When using descriptors that are not listed above, we will specify the organizations that are covered.
  “Community Involvement” Section https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/csr/editingpolicy/social_j.pdf  “For Our Environment” Section https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/csr/editingpolicy/environment_j.pdf  See the following URL for the organizations covered in environmental field description of this data book https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/environment/performance/organization/
About Third Party Verification. 
In order to ensure the reliability of the content in the Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019, we asked a third party, Bureau. 
Veritas Japan, to examine and post a review of the report.
  About Third Party Verification https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/Independent_Assurance_Statement_E.pdf. 
Contact 
 CSR Sustainable Development Division. 
Shiodome City Center,1-5,2 Higashi-Shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-7123, Japan https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/contact/ 
Publisher. 
FUJITSU LIMITED. 
Authority for Publication: Takahito Tokita. 
President and Representative Director. 
Published: December 2019 (The next report will be published in September 2020 and the previous report was published in September 2018.) 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 10-1. 
Third Party Verification Report. 
In order to ensure the reliability of the contents of the Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019, we asked a third party, Bureau Veritas Japan to examine and post a review of the report.
 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 10-2. 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 10-3. 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 10-4. 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 10-5. 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 10-6. 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 11-1. 
GRI Standards / United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles Comparison Table ⇩ G102-1～17 ⇩ G102-18～39 ⇩ G102-40～56 ⇩ G103-1～3 ⇩ GRI 200 ⇩ GRI 300 ⇩ GRI 400. 
GRI Standards Indicator（*: Core performance indicator） References UNGC principle. 
GRI 102: General Disclosures 1. Organizational profile 102-1* Report the name of the organization. ◆Fujitsu Group Profile “Company Name” － 102-2* Report the primary brands, products, and services ◆Fujitsu Group Profile ”Main Business Activities” － 102-3* Report the location of the organization's headquarters. ◆Fujitsu Group Profile ”Addresses” [Reference]Organization － 102-4* Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and the names of countries where it has significant operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report.
◆Fujitsu Group Profile “Global Business System” －
102-5* Report the nature of ownership and legal form. ◆Corporate Governance “Overview of Corporate. 
Governance Structure” ◆Fujitsu Group Profil “Headquarters” [Reference]WEB(Worldwide) －
102-6* Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries).
◆Fujitsu Group Profile”Main Business Activities “Break down of Revenue by Business Segment” － 102-7* Report the scale of the organization, including: Total number of employees - Total number of operations - Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) - Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) - Quantity of products or services provided ◆Fujitsu Group Profile “Revenue”, ”Capital”,”Total. 
Assets”, “Employees”, "Main Business Activities", “Global Business System” ◆Social Data ”Employees in Fujitsu Group” [Reference]Fujitsu at a Glance － 102-8* a. Report the number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender.
b. Report the number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region.
c. Report the number of employees by employment type (fulltime and part-time), by gender. d. Report Whether a significant portion of the organization’s activities are performed by workers who are not employees. If applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed by workers who are not employees.
e. Report any significant variations (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries).
f. Report an explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made.
◆Fujitsu Group Profile “Employees” “Global. 
Business System” ◆Social Data －
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 11-2. 
GRI Standards Indicator（*: Core performance indicator） References UNGC principle 102-9* Describe the organization's supply chain. ◆Supply Chain 102-10* Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization's size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: - Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions - Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) - Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination.
◆Sustainability Report Framework ◆Integrated Report Financial Section －
102-11* Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization.
◆FUJITSU Way and Group-wide Dissemination ”
Fujitsu’s Framework for Dissemination Activities and Progress “ ◆United Nations Global Compact ◆CSR Policy and Promotion. 
Framework ”Implementing CSR Activities Utilizing ISO 26000” ◆Risk Management ◆Environmental Policy at the Fujitsu Group ◆Response to Environmental Risks －
102-12* List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses.
◆United Nations Global Compact ◆CSR Policy and Promotion. 
Framework ”Implementing CSR Activities Utilizing ISO 26000” －
102-13* List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: - Holds a position on the governance body. - Participates in projects or committees. - Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues.
- Views membership as strategic.
◆United Nations Global Compact －
2. Strategy 102-14* Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability ◆Message from the President －
102-15 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ◆Risk Management “Business Risks” ◆Medium/Long-term Environmental Vision ◆Response to Environmental Risks －
3. Ethics and integrity 102-16* Describe the organization's values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics.
◆Our Approach to CSR "The Fujitsu Group. 
Philosophy “FUJITSU Way”" －
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 11-3. 
GRI Standards Indicator（*: Core performance indicator） References UNGC principle ◆CSR Policy and Promotion Framework “Global. 
Integration of Priority Issues” ◆Compliance “The Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct” 102-17 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines.
◆Compliance "Global Compliance Program" ◆Human Rights “Framework for Feedback on. 
Efforts to Promote Respect for Human Rights” －
4. Governance 102-18* Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts.
◆CSR Policy and Promotion Framework “Organizational Structure and Regular Reviews” ◆Corporate Governance “Overview of Corporate. 
Governance Structure (as of June 24, 2019)” ◆Environmental Management System －
102-19 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees.
◆CSR Policy and Promotion Framework “Organizational Structure and Regular Reviews” ◆Corporate Governance “Overview of Corporate. 
Governance Structure (as of June 24, 2019)” －
102-20 Report whether the organization has appointed an executivelevel position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body.
◆CSR Policy and Promotion Framework “Organizational Structure and Regular Reviews” ◆Corporate Governance “Overview of Corporate. 
Governance Structure (as of June 24, 2019)” －
102-21 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body.
◆CSR Policy and Promotion Framework “Organizational Structure and Regular Reviews” ◆Corporate Governance “Overview of Corporate. 
Governance Structure (as of June 24, 2019)” ◆Compliance "Global Compliance Program" －
102-22 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: - Executive or non-executive Independence - Tenure on the governance body - Number of each individual's other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments - Gender - Membership of under-represented social groups - Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts - Stakeholder representation ◆CSR Policy and Promotion Framework “Organizational Structure and Regular Reviews” ◆Corporate Governance “Overview of Corporate. 
Governance Structure (as of June 24, 2019)” －
102-23 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement).
◆Corporate Governance “Overview of Corporate. 
Governance Structure (as of June 24, 2019)” － 102-24 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, ◆Corporate Governance “Overview of Corporate. 
Governance Structure (as of June 24, 2019)” ◆Corporate Governance Report －
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 11-4. 
GRI Standards Indicator（*: Core performance indicator） References UNGC principle including: - Whether and how diversity is considered - Whether and how independence is considered - Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered - Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved.
102-25 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: - Cross-board membership - Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders - Existence of controlling shareholder. 
Related party disclosures ◆Corporate Governance “Overview of Corporate. 
Governance Structure (as of June 24, 2019)” ◆Corporate Governance Report －
102-26 Report the highest governance body's and senior executives' roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization's purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts.
◆CSR Policy and Promotion Framework “Organizational Structure and Regular Reviews” －
102-27 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body's collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics.
◆CSR Policy and Promotion Framework “Organizational Structure and Regular Reviews” － 102-28 a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body's performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a selfassessment.
b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body's performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice.
◆CSR Policy and Promotion Framework “Organizational Structure and Regular Reviews” ◆Corporate Governance “Overview of Corporate. 
Governance Structure (as of June 24, 2019)” ◆Corporate Governance Report －
102-29 a. Report the highest governance body's role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body's role in the implementation of due diligence processes.
b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body's identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities.
◆Corporate Governance “Basic Stance on Internal. 
Control System” ◆Risk Management “Business Risks” ◆Risk Management “ Risk Management &
Compliance Structure” － 102-30 Report the highest governance body's role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization's risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics.
◆Corporate Governance “Basic Stance on Internal. 
Control System” ◆Risk Management “ Risk Management &
Compliance Structure” －
102-31 Report the frequency of the highest governance body's review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and ◆Risk Management “Risk Management Reviews”
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 11-5. 
GRI Standards Indicator（*: Core performance indicator） References UNGC principle opportunities.
102-32 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization's sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered.
◆CSR Policy and Promotion Framework “Organizational Structure and Regular Reviews” － 102-33 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body.
◆Corporate Governance “Basic Stance on Internal. 
Control System” ◆Risk Management “Risk Management &
Compliance Structure” ◆Risk Management “Business Continuity. 
Management” －
102-34 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them.
－ － 102-35 a. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: - Fixed pay and variable pay: - Performance-based pay - Equity-based pay - Bonuses - Deferred or vested shares - Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments - Termination payments - Clawbacks - Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees b. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body's and senior executives' economic, environmental and social objectives.
◆Corporate Governance “Policy on the. 
Determination of Executive Compensation” ◆Corporate Governance Report －
102-36 Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization.
◆Corporate Governance “Policy on the. 
Determination of Executive Compensation” ◆Corporate Governance Report － 102-37 Report how stakeholders' views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable.
◆Corporate Governance “Overview of Corporate. 
Governance Structure (as of June 24, 2019)” 
－ 102-38 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country.
－ － 102-39 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all － －
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 11-6. 
GRI Standards Indicator（*: Core performance indicator） References UNGC principle employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country.
5. Stakeholder engagement 102-40* Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.
◆CSR Policy and Promotion Framework “The. 
Fujitsu Group’s Stakeholders” － 102-41* Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.
◆Performance Evaluation and Compensation /
Work Environment”FY2018 Results” 1, 3 102-42* Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage.
◆CSR Policy and Promotion Framework “The. 
Fujitsu Group’s Stakeholders” ◆Stakeholder Dialogue －
102-43* Report the organization's approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process.
◆Stakeholder Dialogue <Customers, International Society, Local Community> ◆Working With Our Customers ◆Quality Initiatives ◆Approach to Social Contribution Activities <Suppliers> ◆Supply Chain <Employees> ◆Diversity and Inclusion ◆Human Rights ◆Performance Evaluation and Compensation /
Work Environment ◆Health and Safety ◆Health Management ◆CSR Policy and Promotion Framework “Global. 
Integration of Priority Issues” 1～10 102-44* Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns.
◆Stakeholder Dialogue ◆Working With Our Customers “The Fujitsu. 
Customer Contact Center and Fujitsu Contact Line” －
6. Reporting Practice 102-45* a. List all entities included in the organization's consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents.
b. Report whether any entity included in the organization's consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report.
◆Fujitsu Group Profile”Main Business Activities” ◆Sustainability Data Book Framework ◆Integrated Report Financial Section [Reference]Organization －
102-46* a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries.
b. Explain how the organization has implemented the. 
Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content.
◆CSR Policy and Promotion Framework “Organizational Structure and Regular Reviews” － 102-47* List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content.
◆CSR Policy and Promotion Framework “Global. 
Integration of Priority Issues” －
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 11-7. 
GRI Standards Indicator（*: Core performance indicator） References UNGC principle 102-48* Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements.
◆Sustainability Data Book Framework － 102-49* Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries.
◆Sustainability Data Book Framework － 102-50* Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided.
◆Sustainability Data Book Framework － 102-51* Date of most recent previous report (if any). ◆Sustainability Data Book Framework － 102-52* Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). ◆Sustainability Data Book Framework － 102-53* Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.
◆Sustainability Data Book Framework － 102-54* Report the 'in accordance' option the organization has chosen. ◆GRI Guideline/UNGC 10 Principles Comparison Table ◆Third Party Verification Report －
102-55* Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. ◆GRI Guideline/UNGC 10 Principles Comparison Table ◆Third Party Verification Report －
102-56* Assurance a. Report the organization's policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report.
b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided.
c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers.
d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization's sustainability report.
◆Third Party Verification Report －
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1* For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization ◆CSR Policy and Promotion Framework “Global. 
Integration of Priority Issues” ◆Sustainability Data Book Framework －
103-2 Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: i. Policies ii. Commitments iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives ◆Human Rights ”Our Approach” ◆Diversity and Inclusion “Diversity and Inclusion. 
Policy” ◆Diversity and Inclusion “Diversity Promotion. 
Framework” ◆Health and Safety ”Efforts to Improve. 
Occupational Health and Safety” ◆Human Resource Development and Career. 
Design “Policy” ◆Human Resource and Carrer Design “Promotion. 
Framework and Periodic Review” ◆Quality Initiatives “Quality Policy” ◆Quality Initiatives “Our Approach to Promoting. 
Quality Assurance” ◆Supply Chain“CSR Procurement Guideline” －
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 11-8. 
GRI Standards Indicator（*: Core performance indicator） References UNGC principle ◆Social Contribution Activities “Approach to Social. 
Contribution Activities” ◆Environmental Policy at the Fujitsu Group ◆Medium/Long-term Environmental Vision ◆Environmental Management System 103-3 An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach.
◆Human Resource Development and Career. 
Design “Promotion Framework and Periodic Review” ◆Supply Chain “Structures for Promoting CSR. 
Procurement & Periodic Reviews” ◆Environmental Management System －
GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. － － 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change.
◆Response to Environmental Risks 7, 8, 9 201-3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. [Reference] Integrated Report Financial Section － 201-4 Financial assistance received from government. － －
GRI 202: Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. － － 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. － －
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported.
◆Social contribution activities that value people ◆Social contribution activities contributing to the development of science and technology 8, 9 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. － －
GRI 204: Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation. － －
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified. － 10 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures.
◆FUJITSU Way and Group-wide Dissemination “Fujitsu’s Framework for Dissemination Activities and Progress” ◆Compliance “FY 2018 Accomplishments” 10 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. － －
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 11-9. 
GRI Standards Indicator（*: Core performance indicator） References UNGC principle. 
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. － －
GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume ◆Material Balance 301-2 Recycled input materials used － 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials －
GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization ◆Material Balance 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization ◆Material Balance 302-3 Energy intensity ◆Reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions and. 
Boosting Energy Intensity at Our Business Sites 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption ◆Reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions and. 
Boosting Energy Intensity at Our Business Sites ◆Environmental Performance Data Calculation. 
Standards 
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services ◆Development of Top-Level Energy Efficient. 
Products ◆Environmental Performance Data Calculation. 
Standards 9. 
GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source － 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water － 303-3 Water recycled and reused －
GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas －
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity － 304-3 Habitats protected or restored ◆Social contribution activities that value people 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations －
GRI 305: Emissions. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 11-10. 
GRI Standards Indicator（*: Core performance indicator） References UNGC principle 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions ◆Global Warming Prevention 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions ◆Global Warming Prevention 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ◆Global Warming Prevention 305-4 GHG emissions intensity ◆Reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions and. 
Boosting Energy Intensity at Our Business Sites 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions ◆Reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions and. 
Boosting Energy Intensity at Our Business Sites 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) － 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions ◆Material Balance. 
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination ◆Material Balance 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method ◆Limiting Amounts of Waste Generated ◆Material Balance 306-3 Significant spills － 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste － 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff －
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations ◆Case Studies. 
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria － 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken －
GRI 401: Employment 401-1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region.
◆List of Employee related Indicators “Employees” ◆Performance Evaluation and Compensation /
Work Environment “FY2018 Results” －
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation.
◆Performance Evaluation and Compensation /
Work Environment “Employee Benefits Program” － 401-3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender.
◆Social Data “Using the Care Leave and Short. 
Work Hours system” 6. 
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, － －
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 11-11. 
GRI Standards Indicator（*: Core performance indicator） References UNGC principle including whether these are specified in collective agreements.
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 403-1 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs.
◆Health and Safety “Efforts to Improve. 
Occupational Health and Safety” 1 403-2 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender.
◆List of Employee related Indicators “Occupational Safety and Health“ － 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation.
◆Health and Safety “Efforts to Improve. 
Occupational Health and Safety” ◆Risk Management “Business Continuity. 
Management” 1
403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions.
◆Health and Safety “Efforts to Improve. 
Occupational Health and Safety” －
GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category.
◆Human Resource Development and Career. 
Design “FY 2018 Results” － 404-2 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings.
◆Human Resource Development and Career. 
Design “Career Design Support” 6 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category.
－ －
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity.
◆Social Data “Board of Directors” ◆Social Data “Diversity” 1, 6 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. － －
GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. － －
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights.
◆Supply Chain “Structures for Promoting CSR. 
Procurement & Periodic Reviews” ◆Supply Chain “Strengthening Procurement. 
Compliance” ◆Compliance "Global Compliance Program" －
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 11-12. 
GRI Standards Indicator（*: Core performance indicator） References UNGC principle. 
GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor.
◆Supply Chain “Structures for Promoting CSR. 
Procurement & Periodic Reviews” ◆Supply Chain “Strengthening Procurement. 
Compliance” ◆Compliance "Global Compliance Program" －
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor.
◆Supply Chain “Structures for Promoting CSR. 
Procurement & Periodic Reviews” ◆Supply Chain “Strengthening Procurement. 
Compliance” ◆Compliance "Global Compliance Program" －
GRI 410: Security Practices 410-1 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations.
－ －
GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 411-1 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken. － －
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 412-1 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments. ◆Human Rights ”Achievements in FY2018” － 412-2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained.
◆FUJITSU Way and Group-wide Dissemination “FY 2018 Performance” ◆Human Rights ”Achievements in FY2018” 1 412-3 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening.
－ －
GRI 413: Local Communities 413-1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. － 8 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities. － 7, 8. 
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria. － － 414-2 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken. － －
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2019 11-13. 
GRI Standards Indicator（*: Core performance indicator） References UNGC principle. 
GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary. － －
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement.
◆Quality Initiatives “FY 2018 Performance” ◆Supply Chain“FY2018 Results” 9 416-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.
◆Quality Initiatives “FY 2018 Performance” －
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements.
－ － 417-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes.
◆Quality Initiatives “FY 2018 Performance” －
417-3 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes.
◆Working With Our Customers “Advertising and. 
Promotion Policy” －
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 418-1 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data.
◆Information Security －
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations.
◆Compliance「Our Response to Compliance. 
Issues」 － 
Return to Table of Contents