Fujitsu Group. 
Sustainability Data Book 2020


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
1. 
Table of Contents. 
Message from the President 2. 
Fujitsu Way 3-1. 
Sustainability Management 4. 
Sustainability Management in Fujitsu group 4-1-1. 
Goals and Targets of the Global Responsible Business 4-2-1. 
United Nations Global Compact 4-3-1. 
SDG-related Activities in Fujitsu 4-4-1. 
Global Responsible Business 5. 
Human Rights, Diversity and Inclusion 5-1. 
Human Rights 5-1-1-1. 
Diversity and Inclusion 5-1-2-1. 
Wellbeing 5-2. 
Performance Evaluation and Compensation / Work Environment 5-2-1-1. 
Health Management 5-2-2-1. 
Human Resource Development and Career Design 5-2-3-1. 
Environment 5-3. 
Compliance 5-4. 
Supply Chain 5-5. 
Health and Safety 5-6. 
Community 5-7. 
Governance 6. 
Corporate Governance 6-1-1. 
Risk Management 6-2-1. 
Information Security 6-3-1. 
Quality Initiatives 6-4-1. 
Working With Our Customers 6-5-1. 
Data and Documents 7. 
External Recognition and Awards 7-1-1. 
Social data 7-2-1. 
Fujitsu Group Profile 8-1. 
Financial & Non-Financial Highlights 9. 
Sustainability Data Book Framework 10-1. 
Independent Assurance Report 11. 
GRI Standards / UNGC principles Comparison Table 12-1


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
2. 
Message from the President. 
The threat posed by COVID-19 has made us realize just how vulnerable the sustainability of our societal systems really is. At the same time, I feel tremendous sympathy for everyone who has been impacted by this disease.

In the midst of this situation, the climate change issue is becoming more critical, and numerous social distortions continue to emerge, such as widening disparities between groups. From a corporate viewpoint, there is a heightened global awareness that companies will not survive unless they can contribute to solving societal challenges while also addressing the need for efficiency and profitability.

Given this reality, I believe that the way we must serve every one of our stakeholders is with the spirit of ‘empathy for others’. This year we defined the reason Fujitsu exists in society, our Purpose, as “to make the world more sustainable by building trust in society through innovation”. We also decided to modify the Fujitsu Way, which was the first revision in 12 years. Under the banner of One. 
Fujitsu and with a shared sense of values, all 130,000 employees are proactively working to enhance the sustainability of society.

Undertaking actions based on our Purpose equates to meaningful contributions to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). I view the essence of the SDGs as being systemic changes that the global community must achieve by 2030 to allow all 9 billion- plus people around the world to live a good life in 2050 – while keeping within the sustainable limits of this planet. The challenges addressed by the SDGs are complex connected chains that comprise many elements. To solve these problems, we need digital transformation on a scale that encompasses all aspects of society. At Fujitsu, we have vast global experience across a range of industries and business areas, and we aim to play a leading role in the creation of digital ecosystems that transcend traditional sector boundaries.

With this objective in mind, we will transform our mindset and corporate culture. In the management policy released this fiscal year, in addition to conventional financial indicators, we formulated new non-financial indicators to evaluate activities that impact the interests of our many stakeholders, including the community, our customers and our employees. In terms of the priority non-financial areas, we created a unified Global Responsible Business (GRB) framework that covers such issues as enhancing human rights, diversity and inclusion; the environment; and responsible procurement in the supply chain. Fujitsu aims to make stable, long-term contributions to all its stakeholders, both in a financial and a non-financial sense. This will create a positive cycle that results in further growth for our company.

Finally, as a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, Fujitsu supports the 10 principles of the Global Compact in the four areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. We are absolutely committed to minimizing negative impacts on people and society and to promoting a corporate culture with zero tolerance for corruption.
Representative Director and President. 
Takahito Tokita. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
3-1. 
Fujitsu Way. 
Fujitsu Way Revised. 
The Fujitsu Group established the Fujitsu Way in 2002 as a principle for the behavior of all its people. In response to changes in society and the business environment, the company revised the philosophy in 2008 to further instill awareness in its people working around the globe.
The world has become more inter-connected with ever-growing complexity, and we are experiencing an era that is fast-changing and uncertain. Various threats to global sustainability have become apparent. It is Fujitsu's responsibility to use technology to deliver value for customers and contribute proactively to the transformation of society. Accordingly, we have set out Our Purpose to make the world more sustainable by building trust in society through innovation, and renewed the Fujitsu Way for every person in the Group to act with Our Purpose.
The new Fujitsu Way comprises the following three core elements:  Our Purpose : Why Fujitsu exists in society  Our Values : The important sense of value each person should have  Code of Conduct : What Fujitsu people should comply with. 
Moreover, Our Values describe a critical action cycle necessary to achieve Our Purpose, consisting of Aspiration, Trust and. 
Empathy.
We aim to achieve Our Purpose by advancing corporate activities based on the new Fujitsu Way, which will provide a new basis for the actions of each person in the Group.

Click here for further details.
 Fujitsu Way https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/philosophy/
The Structure of Fujitsu Way. 


Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
3-2. 
Activities to Promote Fujitsu Way. 
Since releasing the revised Fujitsu Way on July 1, 2020, we have been planning and preparing measures to communicate the content to all of our people, including via a range of presentations and briefings. To ensure that the Fujitsu Way message is thoroughly disseminated and understood, we will appoint Fujitsu Way Promotion Evangelists in the parent company and in group companies. We are aiming to create a structure in which these individuals will lead our efforts to promote the Fujitsu Way throughout the year.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
3-3. 
Fujitsu Way booklet developed for internal use. 
To coincide with the revision of the Fujitsu Way, on July 1, 2020, we released an easy-to-follow explanatory booklet (Japanese and English versions) that aims to provide a deeper understanding of the modified content and encourage changes in behavior for all Fujitsu people. In developing this booklet, we incorporated the wise words of previous presidents and other pioneers – to reflect the DNA to be carried forward – as well as the enhanced vision that the current CEO and senior management have in mind for Fujitsu. We will continue to use briefing sessions and other meetings to ensure that all our people employ the. 
Fujitsu Way as they work to achieve Our Purpose.
Fujitsu Way booklet. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
4. 

 

Sustainability Management. 
Our vision and the policy for achieving a sustainable society.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
4-1-1. 
Sustainability Management in the Fujitsu Group. 
Policy, Promotion Scheme, and Review. 
The Fujitsu Group has always been seen by society as a trustworthy and responsible enterprise through its delivery of products and services. However, in the current era of VUCA(*1) we face major changes and the future is difficult to predict. It is therefore important that we, as a member of the global community, conduct business activities under the leadership of senior management that are aimed at resolving environmental, societal and economic problems and that will produce beneficial impacts for society. In April 2020, we established a new Sustainability Management Committee that will drive a sustainability- focused management approach.
The objective of this committee is sustainability management that takes into account environmental, societal and economic impacts as well as stakeholder interests, ensuring that the company prospers in the long term as a responsible global enterprise.
Specific initiatives will be in line with our values and our purpose, set out in the revised Fujitsu Way, and will include boosting our efforts in non-financial areas. These include respect for human rights, acceptance of diversity, human resource development, maintenance of the global environment and contributing to the development of regional communities. Our goal is to achieve sustainable, long-term improvement in the value of the Fujitsu Group through corporate activities.
The committee is scheduled to meet every six months to check on the progress of our activities in non-financial areas and to confirm if we are on track to meet our targets. The committee will also discuss new activities and consider non-financial indicators, and then report to management meetings and the Board of Directors with the results. The committee is chaired by the CEO, who will nominate executives with a perspective on sustainability management for appointment as committee members. (As of April 2020, the committee had 13 members, including the chair.) Committee meetings were held in April and. 
October 2020 and were characterized by lively discussions on topics such as the mission of the committee, details of the non- financial indicators, an overview of global responsible business activities and the setting of targets.
System Chart 

*1 VUCA: Volatility, Uncertainty, Complexity, Ambiguity *2 The Fujitsu Group’s stakeholders: The Fujitsu Group regards our people, customers, partners, community and shareholders as its stakeholders.
Government authorities, NPOs, NGOs, and similar organizations are also particularly important stakeholders within this community.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
4-1-2. 
Non-Financial Indicators. 
To realize its Purpose, as defined in the Fujitsu Way, the Fujitsu Group must achieve sustainable growth. An essential prerequisite for this is the building and strengthening of trusted relationships with all stakeholders. With this in mind, in addition to the existing financial indicators, from FY 2020 we have added two non-financial indicators. These are the customer Net Promoter. 
Score (NPS), which gauges the level of trust exhibited by customers, and employee engagement, which measures the degree of enthusiasm and commitment that employees have and their support of the organizational culture. The Fujitsu Group has identified Global Responsible Business as an important issue related to sustainability, and we believe that this initiative will engender heightened trust from our customers and our employees, with the outcome visible in these non-financial indicators.
We will continue to promote a structure for the ongoing monitoring on a global basis of the data from these two non-financial indicators. The insights gained from this monitoring and analysis will then be reflected in a range of activities.
For details, please refer to pages 22-23 of the Fujitsu Group Integrated Report 2020(*3) – Special Feature: “ Progress Toward. 
Becoming a DX Company”, Management Indicators and Global Responsible Business (GRB).
 *3 Fujitsu Group Integrated Report 2020 *To be published by early December, 2020 https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/ir/library/integratedrep/ (p.22-23)
Global Responsible Business. 
Since its CSR Promotion Committee established the Basic Strategy Working Group in 2010, the Fujitsu Group has identified Five. 
Priority Issues in its Basic CSR Policy and has been promoting activities that address those priority issues. The working group conducted interviews with outside experts regarding the expectations and demands on Fujitsu, based on an awareness of global. 
CSR standards and social issues.

However, recent years have seen a further ramping up of demand for initiatives aimed at building sustainable communities on a global scale, including the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the United Nations and the coming into effect of the COP 21 Paris Agreement. The Fujitsu Group has employed a materiality analysis in a Groupwide review of the priority issues to ensure that they reflect changes in its business over the past several years. The result is a unified framework for the priority issues under the banner of Global Responsible Business (GRB).
Global Responsible Business. 
Human Rights, Diversity & Inclusion Pursue human rights goals and global diversity in the AI era. 
Wellbeing Provide opportunities for employees to grow as individuals and fully develop their capabilities. 
The Environment Work to achieve zero emissions from our operations by fiscal 2050, and contribute to climate change adaptation and a decarbonized society. 
Compliance Maintain a high level of awareness of corporate ethics and act fairly in all business activities. 
Supply Chain Accomplish responsible procurement in the supply chain. 
Health and Safety Provide safe and healthy working environments. 
Communities Engage in activities that contribute to society and build prosperous, optimistic communities. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
4-1-3. 
The GRB framework aims to foster the mindset and corporate culture necessary to realize the Fujitsu Way by engaging in specific activities that address our priority issues and to earn and maintain the social trust that is a prerequisite for global business activities. All Group employees must be constantly aware that their companies are part of society and aim to not only pursue profits but also reduce the negative impact of their business activities on sustainability issues while maximizing the positive.

To this end, we have specified long-term goals for each priority issue, with the end of fiscal 2022 set as the deadline for their achievement, and have been building an effective management system to attain the goals. In order to carry out higher-level activities globally while taking into account the differences between countries and regions in such areas as local laws and labor markets, we have set Groupwide targets for all employees. Employees based at our headquarters who are responsible for each of the priority issues led efforts in formulating these targets, while personnel in overseas regions with similar responsibilities also provided input in this regard. We will continue to work on specific measures toward achieving the goals.

In addition, the status of progress in the execution of the GRB is periodically checked by the Sustainability Management. 
Committee, with announcements made in management direction reviews and through various communications methods.
Detailed information on activities for each of the priority issues is included in the Global Responsible Business section of Fujitsu’s. 
Sustainability web page.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
4-2-1. 
Goals and Targets of the Global Responsible Business (GRB)
GRB Targets and FY2019 Activities. 
Pillar “WHAT FUJITSU ASPIRES TO BE” and “GOALS FOR FY2022” Major Activities in FY2019. 
Human. 
Rights,
Diversity and. 
Inclusion  Human Rights. 
In both the real-world and digital societies, consideration for "human dignity" is reflected in all our corporate activities and we constantly work to "create human-centric value".
<Goals>
Embedding "respect for human rights" within Fujitsu group  Completion rates for global human rights training : 80%  Human Rights  Fujitsu Initiatives. 
Addressing Human Rights. 
Issues in Three Areas of. 
Human Rights Due. 
Diligence  Diversity and Inclusion. 
Be a responsible business that reflects the diversity of our world and build an inclusive culture where everyone can be completely themselves.
We will celebrate difference and ensure that people can succeed regardless of their personal identity, especially their gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, race, ethnicity, health, disability, and age.
<Goals>
Cultivation of inclusive corporate culture  Fujitsu Group aims to achieve at least Consolidated 69% from 66%(FY2019) / Non-consolidated 63% from 59%(FY2019), in favorable answers to Diversity and Inclusion question of Engagement Survey by. 
FY2022.
 Fujitsu Group aims to achieve at least Consolidated 10% from 8%(FY2019) / Non-consolidated 9% from 6%(FY2019) female leadership by FY2022.
 Diversity and Inclusion  Held Companywide. 
Diversity Promotion. 
Forums: 465 participants in. 
FY2019. 
Wellbeing. 
The Fujitsu Group aims to enrich and continuously improve our positive health culture where our employees can work to their full potential, both in mind and body.
We value the importance of our people, and will strive to enable them to succeed in their own personal development and growth.
<Goals>
Providing a positive work environment for our people  Fujitsu Group aims to achieve at least 71%, in favorable answers to “Work. 
Life Balance” and “Care” question of Engagement Survey by FY2022. 
Enabling success in personal development and growth  Fujitsu Group aims to achieve at least 70%, in favorable answers to “Growth” question of Engagement Survey by FY2022  Held Telework Days and. 
Telework Month  Health Education. 
Accomplishments such as e-learning  Average Annual Hours. 
Spent Learning and Annual. 
Cost of Learning Per. 
Employee：45.3 hours. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
4-2-2. 
Environment. 
Fujitsu will fulfill its social responsibilities as a global corporate environmental leader. We aim to contribute to achieving the 1.5°C climate change goal of the Paris Agreement and also to resolving environmental challenges, through such measures as developing innovative solutions that make effective use of resources.
<Goals>
Fulfill our social responsibilities and help to resolve environmental challenges  Reduce greenhouse gas emissions from Fujitsu facilities by using science- based targets*1 equivalent to limiting global warming to 1.5°C *2  Avoid risks associated with our business activities and minimize our impact on the environment  Help to resolve environmental challenges for customers and society through our business operations  Greenhouse gas emissions from Fujitsu facilities:
Reduced by 24% compared with FY2013. 
Compliance. 
The Fujitsu Group, from the perspective of maintaining and improving corporate value, recognizes that the installation and operation of an internal control structure, which includes compliance, is one of the most important aspects of management. The Fujitsu Group will disseminate the Fujitsu Way throughout the entire organization. Furthermore, the Fujitsu Group will be aware of a higher level of corporate ethics, which includes social norms in that scope, and act with integrity in all of its business activities.
<Goals>
To further disseminate compliance related part of the Fujitsu Way Code of. 
Conduct throughout the entire organization, the Global Compliance program is rolled out for the entire Fujitsu Group, thereby instilling a high level of compliance awareness in the organization, and the management is to take the lead in fostering a corporate culture where each employee does not tolerate any wrongdoing (Zero Tolerance).
 Deliver messages from the President or the Heads of each Business. 
Group/Region on the importance of compliance (at least once a year)  E-Learning courses for all employees at Fujitsu and. 
Group companies in Japan and overseas, with roughly 130,000 eligible employees taking the courses (offered in 20 languages)  Regular internal audits: 30 divisions within Fujitsu. 
Supply Chain. 
In its supply chain, the Fujitsu Group will achieve responsible procurement that embraces diversity and gives full consideration to human rights, the environment and health & safety.
<Goals>  The Fujitsu Group will achieve responsible procurement in its supply chain.
To ensure that its major suppliers comply with the international standards for responsible procurement, the Fujitsu Group will obtain one of the following documents from its major manufacturing subcontractors and parts suppliers for its core products. (Target KPI =100%)  A platinum or gold level of site recognition under the RBA*3 Audit. 
Recognition program  Written consent with the Fujitsu Group CSR Procurement Guideline (equivalent to the RBA Code of Conduct) 
 Promotion of supply chain diversity. 
We set supply chain diversity as our goal of Responsible Business and promote it globally.
 CSR surveys of major suppliers in Japan and overseas: 107 companies  CSR audits of suppliers:
Three companies. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 4-2-3. 
Health and. 
Safety. 
The Fujitsu Group's first priority in all business activities is to protect the health and safety of our employees both in mind and body by providing a safe and healthy work environment tailored to the different cultures in which we operate.
 We will foster a culture that does not tolerate accidents, incidents and poor safety performance.
 We will ensure safety is a core business value, and make safety important and personal in order to influence people’s decisions and behavior  We will completely eliminate the loss of business opportunities due to preventable illnesses, injuries, and unexpected work-related accidents <Goals>
The Fujitsu Group will maintain a safe and comfortable working environment, and promote employees’ mental and physical health in every workplace.
 Zero occurrences of serious accidents  Implementing health and safety-related management reviews at the global level, conducted once a year  Health and safety training for new employees (approximately 1,600 employees/year)  Health and safety training for business sites (approximately 3,300 employees/year)
Community. 
Our employees, who possess an awareness that they belong to a global society, will have a positive impact not just on society, but on the economy and on business, by increasing their empathy for social issues and engaging in the co-creation of activities.
We will evaluate, analyze and communicate the impact that our employees have made, and offer greater value to society.
<Goals>
Contributing to the transformation of both our corporate culture and mindset of employees  Involvement with the. 
World Business Council for. 
Sustainable Development (WBCSD)  Involvement with the WEF *1 SBT: Science Based Targets. 
An international initiative for companies to set greenhouse gas reduction targets with the goal of limiting global warming https://sciencebasedtargets.org/ *2 Calculation of numerical targets within FY2020 for greenhouse gas emission reductions equivalent to limiting global warming to 1.5°C *3 RBA: Responsible Business Alliance. 
Fujitsu Joins EICC, a Global Corporate Social Responsibility Coalition (renamed as the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) in October 2017) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/resources/news/press-releases/2017/0329-01.html/  Rate of increase in the number of employees participating in social contribution activities related to social issues ; 10% increase compared to fiscal 2019 under the new normal.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
4-3-1. 
United Nations Global Compact. 
Fujitsu announced its support of the United Nations Global Compact in December 2009. The Fujitsu Group is committed to global sustainability Activities that uphold the 10 principles of the Global Compact. Through this commitment, we will meet the demands of various stakeholders in international society, and uphold responsible management as a true global ICT company contributing to the creation of a sustainable society.
What is the Global Compact? 

＜The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact＞ 
The UN Global Compact consists of 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption with which companies should rigorously comply.

Human Rights. 
Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and. 
Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.

Labor. 
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor;
Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and. 
Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.

Environment. 
Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and. 
Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.

Anti-Corruption. 
Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
 
Please refer to the "GRI Standard/UN Global Compact (GC) Index" for the relationship between our sustainability activities in fiscal 2019 and the United Nations Global Compact, as described in the "Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book".
https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/guideline 
* We have been reporting our COP (Communication on Progress) at the Advanced Level since FY 2012.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
4-4-1. 
SDG-related Activities in Fujitsu. 
SDG-related Activities in Fujitsu. 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in 2015 are a set of common goals to be achieved worldwide, including by developed countries, by 2030. Achieving these goals places considerable demand on private-sector enterprises to play an active and useful role through their technology and capacity for innovation.
The Fujitsu Group has worked for many years to utilize technology and create new innovations with the aim of achieving a “human-centric intelligent society”. That is, a society which uses co-creation to generate outcomes that have a lasting impact on the community. These activities are recognized as being aligned with efforts by the international community toward achieving the SDGs.
In this sense, the SDGs are one element in an ecosystem aimed at achieving the Fujitsu growth strategy of “connected services”, pointing the way to new business opportunities through ventures that work to resolve societal issues. The Fujitsu Group sees the. 
SDGs as a global common language and undertakes SDG-related activities as an opportunity for wide-ranging collaboration with other organizations, including international agencies and governments, private companies and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). By embracing a multifaceted approach through cooperation with many partners, we can create and maximize social value on an even larger scale.
Adopting an approach that overlays the role that Fujitsu must play onto common international social goals therefore allows us to flexibly transform our management and business in ways that are not bound by existing approaches and methodologies.
Through this process, we will re-examine ourselves in light of society’s expectations and demands and will actively use the SDGs as a tool in our management strategy for achieving sustainable growth.
Promotion Systems. 
Because the creation of value on a larger scale by addressing the SDGs is inextricably tied to innovating its own business, Fujitsu is promoting a company-wide project that cuts across all levels. This is focused on staff members and includes executives in the. 
Corporate Divisions and Business Units, but also incorporates related divisions such as Fujitsu Laboratories. The perspectives of the various divisions differ, with the Corporate Divisions focused primarily on sustainability and social responsibility and the. 
Business Units focused on business development and solutions. However, they all collaborate in the verification and promotion of businesses that have a focus on solving societal challenges, while also fostering the growth of Fujitsu itself, thereby forging ties in a new way through the co-creation of both social and economic value.
 
Overview of promotion systems. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
4-4-2. 
Contributing with Digital Technologies and Services. 
Fujitsu's response to COVID-19. 
In response to the spread of the new coronavirus, Fujitsu has been pursuing efforts to stop the spread of infection and ensure business continuity, while ensuring the safety of its customers, its partners, its employees, and their families. We will continue to provide services and products to our customers responding to the challenges, proactively utilizing our strengths in technologies such as Cloud, security, IoT and AI to address the variety of societal problems arising from the spread of infection.  Fujitsu’s response to COVID-19 https://www.fujitsu.com/global/covid19/  How we can help you (Japanese only) https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/dx/newnormal/ 
AI Chatbot Provides Rapid On-site Support. 
Recognizing the extreme importance and urgency of the early containment of outbreaks of coronavirus, Fujitsu set up its COVID-19 response team in February. We saw that there was an immediate need for information infrastructure to assist with gathering data to identify infection trends of this unknown virus and to assist support facilities, particularly healthcare centers. Through our AI chatbot CHORDSHIP, we quickly delivered essential services that facilitated local governments and healthcare centers in establishing countermeasures.
In April we launched our Health Monitoring System, which uses data that infected patients and their close contacts have entered into their own mobile devices. This methodology helps to prevent the infection of workers in local governments and healthcare centers during the collection and management of the information. The Health Monitoring System was introduced in Miyagi Prefecture and rolled out to 20 local governments and 60 healthcare centers over a 10-day period. It was also used on a cruise ship docked in. 
Nagasaki as part of the emergency cluster response to prevent the infection from spreading within the ship.
With enormous growth in the number of inquiries to local governments, healthcare centers and medical institutions, we set up a. 
Coronavirus Chat Line capable of providing around-the-clock automated responses. The Chat Line was implemented by local governments, such as Tokyo's Minato City, where it was found that around 80% of inquiries could be handled via automated responses. This greatly reduced the workload on staff and led to improved services to residents. Fujitsu will continue supporting efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19 by digitalizing the information needed to maintain targeted measures while the pandemic continues. (Japanese only)  Health Monitor Chat Line relieving pressure in the field in Miyagi Prefecture https://blog.global.fujitsu.com/jp/2020-05-13/01/  Health Monitor Chat Line deployed more widely on the front lines at local governments and healthcare centers https://blog.global.fujitsu.com/jp/2020-05-13/02/
Cruise ship affected by a COVID-19 outbreak. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
4-4-3  Coronavirus Chat Line providing reassuring around-the-clock responses to residents in Tokyo's Minato City https://blog.global.fujitsu.com/jp/2020-05-15/01/  English-language Health Monitor Chat Line providing an emergency response to a cruise liner cluster in Nagasaki Prefecture https://blog.global.fujitsu.com/jp/2020-05-20/01/ 
Accelerated Launch of Supercomputer Fugaku to Allow Early Utilization. 
RIKEN and Fujitsu are jointly developing the supercomputer Fugaku with the goal of beginning full operation in fiscal year 2021. However, in coordination with Japan's Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT), RIKEN made available a portion of the computationl resources of Fugaku in April 2020, ahead of the schedule, to help deal with the threat to global sustainability posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. This initiative aims to provide as much technical support as possible for the research and development of COVID-19 countermeasures and for the development of effective new drugs. In collaboration with. 
RIKEN, Fujitsu supported this accelerated application of Fugaku by helping to rapidly build the required environment. The anticipated uses of Fugaku extend well beyond the medical field, encompassing solutions to a wide range of societal problems, innovations in manufacturing, research into AI and robotics, and even solving the mysteries of the universe and life itself. Fujitsu will continue to support this exciting project into the future.
  Supercomputer Fugaku: Pulling the Future Closer https://youtu.be/XuenXBHBDmI  The Fugaku next-generation supercomputer tackles the challenges of COVID-19 (part 1) (Japanese only) https://blog.global.fujitsu.com/jp/2020-05-28/01/  The Fugaku next-generation supercomputer tackles the challenges of COVID-19 (part 2) (Japanese only) https://blog.global.fujitsu.com/jp/2020-05-28/02/
Blockchain Technology Helping to Transform the Global Rice Trade. 
Rice has been a staple food for thousands of years and millions of tons of rice are consumed every day. Trading in the global rice market has now risen to around $450 billion annually, but the trading mechanisms involving rice are opaque and complex, making the business of selling rice extremely inefficient. The result is lower revenues for producers, higher costs for consumers and lower profitability for everyone in the supply chain.
Ricex, the first digital platform designed for buying and selling rice, decided to resolve these issues by introducing blockchain technology and automating the trading processes. Fujitsu is engaged in this process as a strategic IT partner and has built a trial version of the world's first fully integrated digital platform for the global rice trade. Quarterly transactions valued at around $25 million are predicted within 2020, and it only takes around six minutes to complete a transaction. This innovation is expected to reduce the cost of trading by 20% and cut processing times by 90%. As well as increasing the efficiency and reliability of all the processes involved in rice trading, this platform will also provide important trade-related information, such as whether the rice is grown sustainably. Fujitsu will provide ongoing support to Ricex, a transformative initiative aimed at building a sustainable rice market. Ricex hopes deliver profits for small farmers, less waste and social good.
  Transforming the $450 billion rice trade https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/resources/case-studies/vision/ricex/index.html. 
Supercomputer Fugaku (Photo courtesy of RIKEN)
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
4-4-4. 
Targeting Quality Education for All through 5G Remote Learning. 
Providing high-quality education to everyone is one of the most important global challenges. But for children who need special medical care and are unable to leave the school environment to pursue field trip classes outdoors, the main problem is the lack of "experiences" on which to base their learning. The official MEXT guidelines for teaching such special-needs students require schools to contrive ways to design creative teaching methods which include simulated or virtual experiences.
To solve this main problem, Fujitsu and Kansei Gakuin University demonstrated a field test of remote learning and virtual experience-based learning that uses new technologies such as 5G-based high-resolution image transfer, virtual reality (VR) and web conferencing systems. Fujitsu provided the ultra-high speed 5G mobile network as the core technology to connect the Soyokaze Classroom in the Tokyo Metropolitan Koumei School for Children with Disabilities, part of the National Center for Child Health and. 
Development and the Okinawa Churaumi Aquarium in Ocean Expo Park. Through real-time data transfer of “experiences” activities, such as real-time video-showing of under water or listening to staff at the aquarium talking about and feeding whale sharks, students were able to experience remote learning and enjoy the VR aquarium without leaving their special medical classroom.
Fujitsu will continue contributing to the provision of high-quality education for everyone using advanced ICT technologies, including 5G, local 5G and high-resolution image transfer.
 (Japanese only)  Kwansei Gakuin University and Fujitsu conduct a proof of concept for 5G remote learning https://pr.fujitsu.com/jp/news/2020/02/28.html  Remote learning for the 5G era: Linking an aquarium with an in-hospital classroom provides hands-on experiences using VR and underwater drones https://blog.global.fujitsu.com/jp/2020-03-04/01/
SDG Promotional Activities in Fujitsu. 
As part of promoting businesses that address societal issues, Fujitsu develops programs that aim to help employees understand the linkages between the SDGs and the services and solutions they are engaged in. This encourages the employees to incorporate an awareness of the SDGs into their work as they devise proposals and undertake activities.
Specifically, this involves attending workshops where logic models are used to represent the economic, environmental and societal impacts of business activities and to rationalize the selling points of services based on the factors required to achieve the SDGs.
These activities help participants to fully embrace the ideas that underpin business ventures designed to address societal issues.

Workshop in progress. 
A remote-learning class. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5. 

 

Global Responsible Business. 
Given the requirement to enhance sustainability-focused corporate management, fulfilling corporate social responsibility from a global perspective has become an increasingly important issue. The Fujitsu Group promotes its Sustainability activities based on the Fujitsu Way. In order to strive for global effectiveness, we have reviewed material issues across the Group based on materiality analysis, and have established a framework called "Global Responsible Business" by classifying issues into the following seven areas.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-1. 

 

 


Global Responsible Business 
- Human Rights, Diversity and Inclusion - 

Based on the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct, the Fujitsu Group will ensure to underlay the spirit of "Respect for human rights" for all our corporate and individual activities, and we will strive to have 130,000 Group employees around the world accept diverse human resources and embrace individuality without bias toward nationality, gender, age differences, or disabilities.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-1-1-1. 
Human Rights. 
Goal. 
WHAT FUJITSU ASPIRES TO BE. 
In both the real-world and digital societies, consideration for "human dignity" is reflected in all our corporate activities and we constantly work to "create human-centric value".
GOALS FOR FY2022. 
Embedding "respect for human rights" within Fujitsu group. 
KPI： Completion rates for global human rights training : 80%
Our Approach. 
The shared values articulated in the Code of Conduct of the Fujitsu Way are guidelines for each employee to follow when conducting their daily business operations. Prime among them is "We respect human rights", a principle that underpins all our corporate activities. We are working to ensure that this concept becomes an integral part of the day-to-day actions of all employees in the group.
In December 2014, the Fujitsu Group released the “Fujitsu Group Human Rights Statement” to promote activities that respect human rights in accordance with this Code of Conduct, as set out in the Fujitsu Way. The statement has been prepared in 21 languages, including Japanese and English, with the aim of ensuring that it becomes embedded in the corporate culture of all our group companies. Fujitsu has also set out the “FUJITSU Guiding Principles of Respect for Human Rights in Employment” to ensure that respect for human rights in regard to employment becomes firmly entrenched.
Fujitsu has publicly announced its support for the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact(*)based on universal principles regarding human rights and rights at work, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International. 
Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We will continue to drive management practices that respect human rights.
 *1 Ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact: The compact identifies ten principles that corporations should uphold in four areas: human rights, labor practices, the environment and anti-corruption.
  Fujitsu Group Human Rights Statement https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/humanrights/fujitsu-group-human-rights-statement_en.pdf  FUJITSU Guiding Principles of Respect for Human Rights in Employment https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/humanrights/fujitsu-group-principles-of-respect-for-human-rights-in- employment_en.pdf. 
Organizational Structure and Regular Reviews. 
In accordance with the "Fujitsu Group Human Rights Statement" referred to above, the Fujitsu Group is engaged in building a. 
Human Rights Due Diligence Scheme that identifies the human rights impacts of our business activities throughout the entire global value chain, while also preventing and mitigating any negative impacts.
As part of this activity, we interviewed personnel across a wide range of departments in Fujitsu and exchanged ideas with Japan- based as well as international experts. In doing so, we identified three key areas where our business activities have a major impact: supply chain, employees, and customers and end users. We are now engaged in activities to address human rights issues in these areas.
In order to further drive Human Rights Due Diligence, within the Human Rights and Diversity pillar of our global responsible business activities, we have established a structure of regular meetings for those responsible for promoting human rights in each. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-1-1-2 of Fujitsu’s operating regions. We will monitor the progress being made toward achieving our goals and KPIs in this area and continue to exchange ideas on Human Rights Due Diligence.
Activities to Raise Awareness of Human Rights. 
The Fujitsu Group has established a Human Rights Promotion Committee which is chaired by the board member in charge of human resources. In addition, we have set up Regional Human Rights Promotion Committees comprising regional workplace representatives in 24 Fujitsu work locations within Japan. These bodies implement activities that promote respect for human rights. We have also created similar committees in approximately 80 group companies within Japan.
The status of activities and issues with the regional and group company committees is regularly reported to the head office of the. 
Human Rights Promotion Committee. Findings are used by the Human Rights Promotion Committee to summarize activities and set policy directions on an annual basis to drive ongoing, structured educational activities that promote respect for human rights.
In order to communicate and entrench the Fujitsu Group Human Rights Statement in the culture of all group companies, we created "Business and Human Rights" posters and displayed them in approximately 230 work locations in Japan and other countries.
 
Education on Human Rights. 
Based on the policy directions set by the Human Rights Promotion Committee, Fujitsu and the group companies within Japan conduct education and training activities using course content that is common across the company as well as content targeting issues specific to a region or group company. There are training programs that all employees undertake when joining the company and upon promotion, as well as other training programs held year-round. These training programs cover various human rights issues, including discrimination against minorities, workplace harassment, understanding of LGBT issues, and human rights issues related to business operations. At Fujitsu, we believe it is crucial for a culture of understanding to be championed by senior management in order to instill respect for human rights. Therefore, we conduct training for newly appointed executives in Fujitsu and our group companies in Japan that teaches them our approach to corporate activities based on international human rights standards. Moreover, the Fujitsu Group has developed an e-learning program on "Business and Human Rights” that is intended for all group employees and aims to heighten awareness about human rights issues for every member of staff. As at the end of FY2019, approximately 100,000 employees of group companies, both in Japan and other countries, had undertaken this training program.
Framework for Reporting and Consulting on Human Rights Issues. 
The Fujitsu Group conducts its business activities worldwide in close collaboration with local communities. Working with these communities, we have established systems to engage in human rights-related consultations and information gathering both inside and outside the company, in order to listen to and understand the opinions of various parties.
The Fujitsu Group has created an intranet-based system to consult with and accept input from all Fujitsu Group employees on. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-1-1-3 human rights-related issues. Within Japan, Fujitsu has set up Human Rights Consultation Service facilities in 16 locations. The matters discussed are reported to the Human Rights Promotion Committee and regularly communicated to auditors, with careful consideration given to ensuring that personal information and privacy are respected. The objectives are to understand the utilization status of this consultation service and to put in place initiatives designed to prevent recurrences of any breaches.
Through the Compliance Line/Fujitsu Alert structure, the Fujitsu Group receives reports and offers consultations related to compliance issues, including human rights issues, for all Fujitsu Group employees, customers, suppliers and other third parties globally. The Fujitsu Group has also set up the Compliance Line for Suppliers in Japan as a channel for receiving reports from suppliers in Japan regarding any actions that are potential or actual instances of non-compliance in our purchasing activities.
  Global Compliance Program https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/compliance/#anc-03. 
Initiatives to Prevent Forced Labor and Child Labor. 
The Fujitsu Group has stipulated that it will not use forced labor or child labor. Every year, the Fujitsu Group conducts a written. 
CSR survey based on the ISO 26000 standard in order to check on our initiatives for preventing forced labor and child labor.
We also make our stakeholders aware of the Fujitsu Group CSR Procurement Guideline, which includes provisions on the elimination of forced labor and child labor. Furthermore, we request that our suppliers complete a written survey on the status of. 
CSR initiatives including steps to eliminate forced labor and child labor.
  Implementing CSR Activities Utilizing ISO 26000 https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/compliance/#anc-03  Supply Chain Management https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/procurement/
Initiatives on AI Ethics. 
In March 2019, the Fujitsu Group formulated and announced the "Fujitsu Group AI Commitment".
As the companies which carry out AI-related businesses including research, development, implementation and operation activities, we hope to encourage our customers' business innovations, keep communication with stakeholders in the community, and distribute the enormous value of AI to the society. For that purpose, the commitment outlines our promises with the customers and the community.
  Fujitsu Group AI Commitment https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/humanrights/fujitsu-group-ai-commitment-201903_en.pdf. 
In line with that commitment, we internally pile up efforts to prevent ethical issues around AI through a range of measures. For example, we held in-house training course in AI ethics for employees involved in AI businesses. Further, we also established the 'Human Centric AI' Working Group with the role of resolving concerns and issues that arise in actual business activities, such as human rights, privacy and ethical concerns.
In September 2019, Fujitsu established the Fujitsu Group External Advisory Committee on AI Ethics, a body comprised of outside experts in AI and other sectors. The committee provides objective appraisals of our initiatives on AI ethics, and its outcomes are shared with Fujitsu's Board of Directors. This mechanism incorporates our efforts on AI ethics into our corporate governance regime, and we keep on reviewing and improving our activities.
  Fujitsu Establishes the Fujitsu Group External Advisory Committee on AI Ethics to Ensure the Safe and Secure Deployment of. 
AI in Society https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/resources/news/press-releases/2019/0930-01.html. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-1-1-4. 
FY2019 Performance. 
Fujitsu Initiatives Addressing Human Rights Issues in Three Areas of Human Rights Due Diligence. 
Areas Human Rights Issues Major Activities in FY2019. 
Supply Chain. 
Work environment/high-risk minerals  Conducted a CSR Survey to check the adoption status of the RBA Code of. 
Conduct by suppliers (107 key suppliers and manufacturing-related employment agencies and subcontractors) and actioned the feedback from the survey results  Notified parts suppliers, manufacturing subcontractors and manufacturing employment agencies of the Fujitsu Group CSR Procurement Guideline and requested submission of their written agreement to the guideline  Conducted RBA Code of Conduct adoption audits of three suppliers  Checked Fujitsu group manufacturing sites for the status of their compliance with the RBA Code of Conduct  Conducted mock audits of RBA Code of Conduct adoption at three group manufacturing sites in Japan and other countries  Conducted "Responsible Procurement" e-learning courses for Fujitsu. 
Purchasing Department staff. 
Employees. 
Discrimination and harassment /working hours  Conducted a written survey of 97 group companies in Japan and other countries based on the ISO 26000 standard to check on the status of initiatives promoting respect for human rights  Conducted e-learning courses for all employees on preventing harassment in the workplace, including preventing discrimination against members of the LGBT+ community, with content that reflected changes to Japanese legislation (Act on Comprehensive Promotion of Labor Policies)  Continued training for new and promoted employees, as well as human rights training in each region throughout Japan, with the aim of preventing various forms of discrimination and harassment  Conducted group-wide "Barrier-Free Minds" workshop (group-based training and e-learning) aimed at establishing workplaces and a society in which everyone can participate actively, whether disabled or not  Reviewed internal systems, monitored ICT usage and delivered management reforms to promote diversified, flexible work styles that are not predicated on long working hours  Conducted "Unconscious Bias” e-learning courses for all employees to help reveal underlying systemic discrimination while also further promoting diversity and inclusion, and expanded the courses to include group companies in Japan  Reviewed internal corporate regulations, documentation and so on to ensure consistency with the RBA Code of Conduct. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-1-1-5. 
Customers and end users. 
Privacy and data security  Announced the Fujitsu Group AI Commitment and conducted an assessment of the impact of AI on human rights. We will systematically identify the points that should be taken into consideration for each industry and for the tasks in each occupation when promoting AI businesses, and then refer to these points when planning specific measures. 
Education on Human Rights Issues 
 E-learning for employees conducted by Fujitsu and group companies in Japan at various locations: 58,394 attendees. 
Preventing Workplace Harassment: Aimed at creating inclusive workplaces where everyone is welcome  Employee training conducted by Fujitsu and group companies in Japan at various locations: 21,171 attendees. 
Discrimination against minorities, workplace harassment, promoting an understanding of gender diversity and human rights issues related to business operations  Fujitsu and group companies in Japan. 
Training for new employees: 1,130 attendees (Fujitsu figures)
Training for promoted employees: 2,768 attendees (Fujitsu figures)
Training for new executives: 50 attendees. 
Activities to Raise Awareness of Human Rights 
 Held a contest in which employees of Fujitsu and group companies in Japan and their families devised slogans to promote human rights awareness: 4,102 submissions  Distributed human rights messages to employees of Fujitsu and group companies in Japan timed to coincide with Human. 
Rights Week (December 4-10, 2019)  Displayed posters promoting human rights awareness in the workplaces of Fujitsu and group companies in Japan.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-1-2-1. 
Diversity and Inclusion. 
Goal. 
WHAT FUJITSU ASPIRES TO BE. 
Be a responsible business that reflects the diversity of our world and build an inclusive culture where everyone can be completely themselves.
We will celebrate difference and ensure that people can succeed regardless of their personal identity, especially their gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, race, ethnicity, health, disability, and age.
GOALS FOR FY2022. 
Cultivation of inclusive corporate culture.
KPI： ・ Fujitsu Group aims to achieve at least Consolidated 69% from 66%(FY2019) / Non-consolidated 63% from 59%(FY2019), in favorable answers to Diversity and Inclusion question of Engagement Survey by FY2022 (*1).
・ Fujitsu Group aims to achieve at least Consolidated 10% from 8%(FY2019) / Non-consolidated 9% from 6%(FY2019) female leadership by FY2022 (*1) 
*1 Where “Consolidated” relates to all Fujitsu Group Companies globally, and “Non-Consolidated” relates to Fujitsu Limited.
Diversity and Inclusion Policy. 
Here at the Fujitsu Group, we engage in efforts to advance diversity and inclusion. These efforts are based on one of our corporate values: “We respect diversity and support individual growth.” Nowadays, diversity refers not only to factors like gender, disability, and nationality, but also to things like work style, communication style, and multi-culturalism, in a variety of different settings and from a variety of different perspectives.
We established the Global D&I Vision & Inclusion Wheel to reflect this expansion in definition. It acts as a guideline, helping further advance our efforts toward inclusion and diversity within our employees.
This wheel expresses the Fujitsu Group’s overall efforts as they relate to D&I, and also defines what D&I means for the Group. The. 
Global D&I Vision states that our ultimate goal is for each and every employee to be able to express themselves and their individual strengths. The wheel also defines the vision, strategic goals, and focus areas required to realize this goal. We also clarify, through the Inclusion Wheel, that our efforts toward D&I will be wide-ranging, covering a diverse array of factors and fields, while staying rooted in our focus areas.
 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-1-2-2. 
Diversity Promotion Framework. 
Here at Fujitsu, we established the Diversity Promotion Office in 2008. The office, which is under the direction of the President and the Diversity Officer, engages in efforts to promote diversity and inclusion in all group companies.
The office regularly hosts meetings attended by all regional Diversity Promotion Representatives, where they share the issues and policies they have experienced/implemented in each region, and generate ideas as to global promotional policies. All group companies in Japan are also required to select a diversity promotion manager. These managers promote diversity in the Group as a whole by sharing information amongst each other during their meetings, strengthening their coordination with Fujitsu, helping standardize policies, and more.
We also include diversity-related questions on our annual employee survey which is conducted globally, so we can be aware of our current circumstances with regard to diversity promotion.
Application of International Standards. 
In FY 2017, the Fujitsu Group issued a CEO Statement of Support for the Women’s Empowerment Principles, which were created by the UN Global Compact and UN Women. In doing so, we pledged our support of the principles. In FY 2018, we also became the first Japanese company to pledge our support to the UN’s LGBTI Standards of Conduct, and have been proactive overall in our adaptation to global trends in diversity.
Gender-Based Initiatives. 
The Fujitsu Group has set goals to increase the percentage of female employees in leadership positions, and we are working to promote initiatives to achieve these goals and reform the culture at Fujitsu Group companies.
At Fujitsu, these efforts involve nominating female employees from the leader level as candidates for top management, and establishing/implementing individually-tailored training programs for these employees alongside their workplace, the management, HR, and the Diversity Promotion Office. In addition to these kinds of management-track leadership programs, we also conduct workshops and events that allow female employees to reflect and build on their careers in other tracks as well. These act as pipelines to drive female employees to further advancement, and allow us to support the careers of each and every employee.
 
*Indicator assured by third party. 
Female Leadership Development Program. 
Since FY 2011, Fujitsu and its group companies in Japan have conducted a training program that aims to cultivate personnel for future leadership and managerial positions. This program is meant to support the long-term career development of female employees. Members chosen from each division gather for intensive courses and OJT, focused mainly on teamwork, over the course of approximately six months. Over this time, they develop management skills and learn to think in more career-oriented *
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-1-2-3 ways. At the end, each team makes their proposal to the management.
More than 60% of the employees that have gone through this program have been promoted, and it has had a definitive effect on the career development of female employees within the Group.
Career Workshop for Female Employees. 
In order to further encourage the career development of female employees, Fujitsu and its group companies in Japan provide female employees opportunities to engage in dialogue with multiple role models, Fujitsu managers, and more. This workshop is open mainly to young female employees that are on a leadership track. Our goal with the workshop is to help eliminate any internalized prejudice as to their manager-level career development, expand their career options, and acquire the broader perspective needed to perform in high-level positions.
Career Development Seminar. 
Fujitsu and its group companies in Japan host seminars aimed toward a wide range of our female employees, in order to support their career development. Participants in the program attend lectures by in-house and external role models, engage in group discussion, and more in order to cultivate a more challenge-driven mindset, and a mid- to long-term perspective with regard to their career development and sustained growth in their respective companies.
International Women’s Day Initiatives. 
The Fujitsu Group uses the occasion of International Women's Day, which falls on March 8 each year, as an opportunity to communicate messages from top management and share messages from female employees around the world and the employees who support their activities, in addition to engaging in various efforts in every region.
Since FY2018, Fujitsu and its domestic group companies have been hosting lectures by guests from outside Fujitsu, as well as networking events and the like (FY2019 events have been cancelled). Even in overseas regions, we are conducting webinars and other events in order to accelerate the transformation of corporate culture.
Support of the Kanagawa Women’s Activity Support Group. 
The Kanagawa Women’s Activity Support Group is made up of top male officials from well-known companies, administrative offices, universities, and other organizations that are headquartered (or have a major business office) in Kanagawa Prefecture, and that have been active in their support of women’s career development. Supporting members share relevant initiatives in their own organizations through declarations of conduct, and in doing so, work to create and drive the women’s career development movement in the area. In. 
November 2015, Fujitsu became a supporting company of the group, and delivered a declaration of conduct aimed toward the expansion of the women’s career development movement. At present, we are working to jumpstart their activities, in collaboration with other member companies who support these efforts.
  Declaration of Conduct for Women’s Activity Support https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/documents/about/csr/diversity/Woman_act.pdf. 
Presentation by program participants. 
Declaration of Conduct. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-1-2-4. 
Employment and Support of People with Disabilities. 
At Fujitsu, we do not impose restrictions on the types of jobs available to people with disabilities. As such, there are people with disabilities who work in a wide range of jobs, from sales staff to SEs,
R&D staff, administrative staff, and more.
During the hiring process, we prepare pamphlets and websites aimed toward job seekers with disabilities. This pamphlet includes employee interviews, as well as information as to our stance on the employment of people with disabilities, and the wide range of jobs available to them. In explaining how we provide an affirming and individually-oriented workplace for all, regardless of disability, we hope to relieve them of any anxiety they may have about their employment. We also conduct long-term follow-up on these employees, from training until they become settled in their jobs, to encourage them to stay with us for the long term. Examples of this include special training programs when they enter the company, and workplace-oriented consultations so that each employee is able to perform to the best of their abilities.
We also created a manual for workplaces, called the Work Style Guideline. It lists the things that employees should consider when working with employees with disabilities, according to each type of disability.
In addition, we introduced a diversity communication tool—FUJITSU Software LiveTalk—as a common service for Fujitsu and its domestic group companies, in order to support smooth communication and efficient operations which include employees who are hearing-impaired.
  FUJITSU Software LiveTalk https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/group/ssl/products/livetalk/ (Japanese only) 
Furthermore, communities of people with disabilities all over the world, on their own initiative, are launching efforts to jumpstart activities for creating better working environments for employees with disabilities.
Disability-Oriented Diversity Promotion Forum. 
Fujitsu hosts forums that aim to support people with disabilities in the workplace.
Every year, the forums are set up to have a variety of themes, such as rational considerations for people with disabilities, lessons for universal design, and developmental disabilities that are difficult to see. In FY2019, the forum’s theme was “Will the Paralympics change D&I?” Employees with disabilities and able-bodied employees participated in discussions and tried playing para-sports together.
Efforts for the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. 
On December 3, the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, the Fujitsu Group sets its color theme to purple. We are working in every region to raise awareness of disabilities by sharing various initiatives from each region all over the world.
Examples include holding events that promote understanding for people with disabilities and conducting activities—such as Purple Light Up, where we change building color themes—that are aimed at boosting employee awareness. Purple Light Up at the UK Office *Indicator assured by third party *
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-1-2-5. 
Special Subsidiaries to Promote the Employment of People with Disabilities. 
Fujitsu and its group companies in Japan have established special subsidiaries in order to provide people with disabilities a wider range of workplaces. These subsidiaries work to cater to the unique needs of each and every individual, and create workplaces where they can thrive.

Year. 
Established # of People with. 
Disabilities Main Work Tasks Business Office(s)
Fujitsu FSAS Inc. 1995 37. 
Repair of ATMs, PCs, and printed circuit boards; various tasks for. 
Fujitsu maintenance services. 
Beppu. 
Fujitsu Harmony. 
Limited 
2013 156. 
Recycling; office environment work; health maintenance work; creation of free gifts; operational support of meetings/events; order/sale of box lunches; support of health check-ups. 
Kawasaki, Numazu,
Shinagawa, Yokohama,
Shin-Koyasu, Aomori,
Sapporo, Nagano, Sendai,
Niigata, Omiya, Okinawa,
Makuhari, Kansai, Nasu. 
Fujitsu Social. 
Science Laboratory. 
Limited 2017 14. 
In-house delivery tasks; office support; maintenance/management of office environment; recycling- related tasks. 
Kawasaki. 
Race/Ethnicity-Based Initiatives. 
The Fujitsu Group works to create a corporate culture conducive to the individual growth and expression of all employees, regardless of race or ethnicity. Fujitsu hires global personnel (international students, foreign university students, etc.) by participating in career events for international students both in and out of Japan, hosting our own seminars, accepting foreign university students as interns, and more. As a result, 436 employees with foreign nationality work at Fujitsu as of the end of March 2020.
In 2007, Fujitsu established the Integr8 network, which aims to support international employees and allow them to perform to the best of their abilities in the company. Through this project, we have worked to create a working environment that is more comfortable for our global personnel. As part of the project, we offer an intranet that provides explanations as to Japanese rules/regulations, HR procedures for business trips, visa acquisition procedures, information about food, clothing, and shelter, and more, to help these employees adapt more easily to the Fujitsu work environment and to their lives in Japan. There are also services that allow these employees to ask questions and receive consultation in English. The project has also been expanded to support the international integration of Fujitsu workplaces throughout the world. In order to accomplish this, we provide support for the establishment of global societies within the Fujitsu Group, host workshops to hear from our employees and encourage them to share information, host networking events, and more. Overseas, we are also engaged in initiatives to deepen our understanding of the history of specific ethnicities, and initiatives to provide support for ethnic minorities.
Creating a More LGBT-Friendly Workplace. 
Fujitsu is working to drive deeper understanding of gender and sexual diversity (such as LGBT+), in order to create a workplace where every employee can feel secure and comfortable and perform to the absolute best of their abilities. In 2016, we released a. 
President’s Message addressed to all employees of the Fujitsu Group, announcing our commitment to creating a more LGBT+- friendly workplace and working towards diversity and inclusion within the group. In Japan, we have also worked to expand internal policies such as the provision of congratulatory/condolence money, vacation days, and leaves, to include same-sex partners as well.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-1-2-6. 
Our efforts to raise group-wide awareness include providing training on human rights, distributing leaflets, hosting lectures aimed toward managers, and sending messages through the intranet. In addition, we also host LGBT+Ally Meetings, where employees can engage in discussion with LGBT individuals, in order to expand the network of LGBT allies. In the past, we have hosted screening events under the theme of LGBT and LGBT allyship (2017: The Case Against 8 / 2018: Kalanchoe). In recent years, participants of these events have begun naturally to declare their LGBT allyship in the workplace, by putting stickers in rainbow colors (a symbol of respect for the. 
LGBT community) on their office PCs, business card holders, and more.

In June 2018, Fujitsu became the first company in Japan to announce its support for the UN Standards of Conduct for Business Tackling Discrimination against Lesbian,
Gay, Bi, Trans, and Intersex People. In 2019, Fujitsu Group had its greatest participation in global pride events to date (Japan events in Tokyo, UK events in. 
London and Birmingham, UK black pride events, bi pride events, transgender pride events, USA events in Dallas and Silicon Valley, Portugal events in Lisbon, and more).
In 2019, the Fujitsu Group brought together the LGBT+ & Ally employee networks in every region globally, and we are working to provide support to our global employee network (Fujitsu Pride).
Furthermore, Fujitsu participates in and sponsors Pride House Tokyo as a Gold Partner.
This project, sparked by the Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics, aims to go beyond sectors and collaborate with organizations, individuals, and companies to disseminate information related to sexual minorities and build permanent places where young LGBTQ people in the next generation can gather with peace of mind.
  Pride House Tokyo http://pridehouse.jp/en/
Support of a Healthy Work-Life Balance. 
Fujitsu is working to establish a system that allows employees to better balance their work and private life, including such events as childbirth, child care, and long-term care.
Fujitsu has established an Action Plan (*2) in accordance with the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-
Generation Children, with regard to pregnancy and childbirth. We also provide babysitter subsidies and have in-house childcare facilities in our business offices. Additionally, through our work system, with initiatives like expanded flex time, as well as the implementation and mainstreaming of remote work, we promote a balance between work and childcare/long-term care. Several times a year, we conduct seminars for supervisors of employees who have just returned from parental leave or are currently raising children, with the aim of providing workplace support and constructing networks, in addition to promoting diversity management.
 *2 Action Plan:
The first Action Plan was implemented in 2005. This current one is the 6th Action Plan (April 1, 2018 – March 31, 2021).
  6th Action Plan (96KB) (Japanese only) https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/documents/about/csr/employees/system/season-6-action-plan.pdf. 
Since FY 2017, we have also hosted the Balancing Work and Long-Term Care seminar for employees involved in long-term care.
The seminar provides an opportunity to learn basic knowledge about long-term care in general, including support policies both inside and outside of the company, the mental/emotional attitude needed, and the preparation that goes into providing long- term care.
Company volunteers participate in the Tokyo. 
Rainbow Pride parade. 
Global SOGI logo. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-1-2-7. 
External Awards / Certifications. 
See here for a list of the external awards / certifications that Fujitsu has received for its diversity efforts.
  External Recognition and Awards https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/evaluation/index.html. 
FY 2019 Performance. 
Corporate Culture Reform Initiatives 
 Held Companywide Diversity Promotion Forums: 465 participants in FY2019 (Fujitsu and other group companies)  Offered Unconscious Bias e-Learning class: 48,266 employees completed (Fujitsu and other group companies) *cumulative for FY2018 and FY2019. 
Gender-Based Initiatives 
 Female employee rate: 17.4% / Female executive and manager ratio: 6.6%* / Newly-appointed female manager rate: 13.3% (Fujitsu)  Held Female Leadership Development Program: 84 participants in FY2019 (Fujitsu and other group companies)  Held Female Employee Career Workshop: 100 participants in FY2018 (Fujitsu)  Held Career Development Seminar (2 times): 334 participants (Fujitsu and other group companies)  Held events in several countries for nurturing self-esteem: 200 participants (NWE regions)  Held webinar to provide career support for female employees: 150 participants (NWE regions)  Held International Women’s Day webinar, together with clients (GDC) 
* Indicator assured by third party. 
Employment and Support of People with Disabilities 
 Rate of employment for people with disabilities: 2.23% * (June 2019) (Fujitsu)  Held Diversity Promotion Forum for employees with disabilities: 114 participants (Fujitsu and other group companies)  Introduced LiveTalk, a diversity communication tool for hearing-impaired people, company-wide, and for all domestic group companies (Fujitsu and other group companies)  Held lectures by employees with disabilities at new employee training (Fujitsu) 
* Indicator assured by third party. 
Race/Ethnicity-Based Initiatives 
 Held Integr8 workshop / events: 2 times (Fujitsu)  Hosted mentoring programs (Fujitsu)  Black History month (Americas region)  Support for ethnic minorities (Oceania region)
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-1-2-8. 
Efforts Toward the Support of a Healthy Work-Life Balance (Fujitsu) 
 Diversity Promotion Seminar for child-rearing employees: 2 times / 95 participants. 
Health advice from public health nurses, speeches by female executives with child-rearing experience, lectures by external speakers, group discussions  Diversity Management Seminar for supervisors of employees with children: 2 times / 93 participants. 
Lectures about the characteristics of child-rearing female employees, lectures on management by external speakers, group discussions  Seminars for balancing work with long-term care: 4 times / 324 participants 
 Number of Employees Utilizing Pregnancy and/or Childcare Policies, and Reinstatement/Retention Rates of Employees on. 
Parental Leave (Number of Employees Utilizing Policies) (FY 2019: Fujitsu) (Unit: # of employees) # of Users Male Female. 
Child Care Leave 541* 110 431. 
Family Care Leave 12* 9 3. 
Reduced Working Hours (Child Care) 883* 26 857. 
Reduced Working Hours (Family Care) 13* 4 9. 
Paternity Leave 554* 554 - * Indicator assured by third party. 
Reinstatement/Retention Rates After Parental/Long-Term Care Leave (FY 2019: Fujitsu)
Reinstatement Rate Retention Rate. 
Parental Leave 97.7% 98.3%
Family Care Leave 100% 64.7% 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2. 

 

 


Global Responsible Business 
- Wellbeing - 

The Fujitsu Group aims to enrich and continuously improve our positive health culture where our employees can work to their full potential, both in mind and body. We value the importance of our people, and will strive to enable them to succeed in their own personal development and growth.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-1-1. 
Performance Evaluation and Compensation / Work Environment. 
Goal. 
WHAT FUJITSU ASPIRES TO BE. 
The Fujitsu Group aims to enrich and continuously improve our positive health culture where our employees can work to their full potential, both in mind and body.
We value the importance of our people, and will strive to enable them to succeed in their own personal development and growth.
GOALS FOR FY2022 roviding a positive work environment for our people. 
KPI： Fujitsu Group aims to achieve at least 71%, in favorable answers to “Work Life Balance” and “Care” question of. 
Engagement Survey by FY2022. 
Performance Evaluation and Compensation. 
Our Approach. 
Incorporated in Fujitsu's Corporate Values is the importance of a positive attitude that embraces the challenges expressed in such maxims as "Set ambitious goals and hasten to achieve them" and "Grow through curiousity and learn from your mistakes and experiences." As the Statement of Purpose makes clear, Fujitsu "values fairness and equality, and promotes diversity and inclusion" while providing "flexible environments that allow people to reach their full potential" and helping employees to "continue developing their skills and capabilities to meet the needs of society."
Specifically, Fujitsu aspires to three key goals for its employees: 
1. To provide all employees with work that is engaging and challenging 2. To enable all employees to continually learn and develop 3. To enable collaboration among diverse and talented personnel that extends beyond national and organizational boundaries. 
To achieve these goals, Fujitsu is building an environment aimed at improving employee engagement, reforming the organizational climate throughout the Fujitsu Group, and creating a global and group-wide personnel structure.
Given this focus, Fujitsu's approach to performance evaluation and compensation is to support employee growth and create workplaces in which employees can reach their full potential. Equally, it encourages employees to see Fujitsu as a place where they can achieve personal growth as well as be rewarded for the results of their work. Fujitsu follows this approach when evaluating and compensating staff.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-1-2. 
Our Policy. 
Fujitsu emphasizes “qualitative” fairness in its human resources system, with decisions on employee compensation based on the “level of contribution to the Company” and the “level of results achieved”. For this reason, we disclose information related to human resources.
 1. Show employees how they can be rewarded with higher compensation ⇒ Openly disclose rules of the human resources system 2. Show how the company evaluates staff ⇒ Provide individual evaluation feedback and compensate according to contribution 3. Show opportunities for challenge ⇒ Human resource development, internal postings, Free Agent program. 
Detailed Activities 
【Employees】
In Japan, Fujitsu and the group companies have introduced a "human resources system based on functional division and competency grade”. Under this system, which forms the basis for human resources compensation, we define "functional division" as the function the employee should be fulfilling and "competency grade" as the ability to achieve a specific performance that can be linked to a business outcome.
Under this human resources system, we clarify the competency grade requirements of employees in a job description for each functional division. Through periodical reviews of the competencies that each person demonstrates, we aim to support the growth of all employees over the medium and long terms.
We conduct evaluations of "initiatives aimed at medium-to-long-term growth" and "maximizing results in the current financial period”. To reflect these in compensation, we use a two-pronged evaluation mechanism based on competency evaluations and performance evaluations. The results of the competency evaluations are reflected in salary increases and grade changes, and the results of performance evaluations are reflected in bonuses.

We conduct activity-based evaluations of the degree to which employees demonstrate "an appropriate mindset", "business execution ability" and "specialist expertise", and then take into account the relative gap to upper-level grades before determining. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-1-3 the overall evaluation. By separating medium-to-long-term factors from the process, we are able to conduct more clear-cut evaluations based on the scale of half-year results.
In addition, we continue to support efforts aimed at the medium-to-long-term growth of each employee. With a focus on career goals, we also encourage interactive communication between employees and their managers that covers the areas of behavioral change and medium-to-long-term growth. Review meetings are conducted annually at the beginning of each year.
 【Executives】
In April 2020, we introduced a job-based human resources system for executives. This new system uses a globally unified standard to rate the magnitude and importance of the job, not the person, and the compensation reflects this rating. The goal is to encourage executives to take on the challenge of more significant jobs and to more promptly reward those who achieve results.
In addition to having a quantitative perspective, such as sales numbers, the magnitude and importance of these jobs are also rated according to a set of measures that includes reporting line, difficulty, impact, level of specialization and diversity. This set is referred to as the "FUJITSU Level". Compensation is standardized using a payment scheme based on the FUJITSU. 
Level.
The scheme for bonuses is different to the FUJITSU Level scheme, with bonuses for FUJITSU Level 15 positions and below being paid based on organizational and personal evaluations. For VP positions and above, an STI/LTI scheme is being introduced that is more closely tied to results. This scheme will also apply to executives in Japan and other countries.
Responsibility. 
The Global Human Resources Unit operates this system, under the direction of the executive responsible for human resources.
Work Environment. 
Fujitsu Telework System. 
In April 2017, Fujitsu formally introduced a telework system that allows for flexible ways of working that are not tied to a specific location. This system is available to all 35,000 Fujitsu parent company employees in Japan and includes working from home or a satellite office as well as working during business trips.
The telework system facilitates business continuity in emergency situations such as the COVID-19 pandemic, allowing for work innovations such as holding online meetings and digitalizing written materials. It also provides an environment that makes it easier for employees with other commitments – such as raising children or caring for relatives – to continue working, thereby helping Fujitsu to support and retain valued personnel.

Goals of the System  To boost individual productivity and maximize the benefits of team work  To build an environment that supports continued participation by a diverse range of staff  To ensure business continuity and rapid responses to disasters. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-1-4. 
Initiatives Aimed at Reducing Long Working Hours. 
The Fujitsu Group aims to improve the work-life balance and the productivity of every employee through a variety of initiatives aimed at reducing long working hours. As an example, at Fujitsu Headquarters, every Wednesday is designated as a day for leaving work on time. On these days, the company turns off the lights in the office at 6:00 p.m to encourage employees to return home. We are also enhancing our systems that support diverse ways of working, allowing employees to make use of flexible working arrangements, such as flex time and exempt labor systems(*1). In addition to promoting varied ways of working, Fujitsu wants its staff to radically reconsider their approach to taking leave. To ensure that employees enjoy ample leisure time, we are encouraging them to take five continuous days of paid leave at any time during the year – not only in the key public holiday periods in Japan.
 *1 Exempt labor system: A system in which the employee mostly determines the number of hours for the work to be performed.

Examples of specific initiatives aimed at reducing long working hours:  Adopting flex time and exempt labor systems for professional and management-related work  Sending alert e-mails regarding overtime work  Ensuring meetings are not scheduled outside of regular working hours  Specifying recommended days for taking annual leave  Insisting that staff leave work on time one day a week  Encouraging staff to leave work one hour earlier every day  Emphasizing the concept of working hours management during management training  Promoting a telework system aimed at diverse work practices  Adjusting work patterns and leisure patterns according to fluctuations in workload. 
Employee Benefits Program. 
The Fujitsu Group has programs in place that are suited to the lifestyles of employees and that enable them and their families to lead healthy, prosperous lives.
To respond to the advancing trends of globalization and diversity, and to the changing needs of employees, in October 2014. 
Fujitsu introduced the “F Life+” cafeteria plan(*2) as a new employee benefits program.
Furthermore, in line with the belief that active work and personal growth for every employee leads to growth and development for the company, we have established various initiatives to support employees' own efforts to prepare for the future. These include savings/property accumulation programs, an employee shareholding association, group insurance benefits, housing support, medical support, health support, and childcare support.
 *2 Cafeteria plan. 
A system under which employees select the employee benefits they want or need from a diverse menu prepared by the company, taking advantage of the chosen options by using "employee benefits points" awarded by the company.
Measures to Enhance Communication. 
Labor Relations. 
Based on labor-management agreements with the Fujitsu Labor Union, Fujitsu holds discussions about various employment conditions and explains management policies and business conditions, along with business reorganization and other matters, to its employees through regular and ad hoc meetings such as the Labor Council or Productivity Council. These agreements also stipulate the collective bargaining rights of the union. Fujitsu adopts a union shop system, so all non-managerial employees are members of the Fujitsu Labor Union.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-1-5. 
In Europe, the Fujitsu European Labor Relations Council Annual General Meeting has taken place every year since 2000, with the overall financial conditions of the Fujitsu Group and other issues shared with the employee representatives from Fujitsu Group companies.
Fujitsu has established a consultation service as a contact point for email and phone queries to the Human Resources and. 
Administration Units. This is part of a structure that is designed to make it easy for employees to seek guidance on human resource and administrative programs.
Employee Engagement Survey. 
We, Fujitsu Group, believe it is important for employees to be highly motivated to take on challenges, in order to continue operating as a company that "makes the world more sustainable by building trust in society through innovation" , as defined in our Corporate Values and Principles.
Therefore, we regularly conduct employee engagement survey to provide General Managers with an opportunity to seriously consider the importance.
We have been gradually introducing this survey in Japan since FY2002, and outside Japan we began conducting an Employee. 
Engagement Survey across all overseas Group companies in FY2011. We use this survey to compare regions within the Fujitsu. 
Group and also to benchmark ourselves against our competitors in each country and region.
Based on analysis of the results, we have identified issues specific to countries and regions, and to divisions and occupations, and we are now working toward management improvements and reform of our organizational culture.
FY2019 Performance. 
Initiatives Aimed at Reducing Long Working Hours. 
The discretionary working system applies to 17% of employees, and the flex time system applies to 74% of employees (in Fujitsu and group companies in Japan).
Work-style Reforms. 
Held Telework Days and Telework Month (at Fujitsu)
To encourage further uptake of the telework system by employees, we implemented an initiative where we asked all employees to participate in telework days (July 22-26, July 29-August 2, August 19-23, August 26-30). Around 50% of employees (15,000 people) teleworked on one or more days that week. During "Telework Month (November 1-30)” we again called for all employees to telework and we continue to proactively strive for diversified, flexible working practices.
Unionization Rate. 
The Fujitsu Labor Union membership rate is 75.0% (Fujitsu).
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-1-6. 
Employee Engagement Survey 
 Number of employees surveyed: Total 125,000 employees; approximately 89,000 employees at Fujitsu Limited and 120. 
Group companies in Japan and 36,000 overseas employees  Survey response rate: 84% globally (89% in Japan; 73% overseas)  Positive response rate: 56% (Fujitsu Limited) 

 

Trend in Turnover Rate. 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-2-1. 
Health Management. 
Goal. 
WHAT FUJITSU ASPIRES TO BE. 
The Fujitsu Group aims to enrich and continuously improve our positive health culture where our employees can work to their full potential, both in mind and body. We value the importance of our people, and will strive to enable them to succeed in their own personal development and growth.
GOALS FOR FY2022. 
Providing a positive work environment for our people. 
KPI: Fujitsu Group aims to achieve at least 71%, in favorable answers to “Work Life Balance” and “Care” question of. 
Engagement Survey by FY2022. 
Our Health Management Policy. 
In order to make the Fujitsu Way a reality, and to tackle health management while simultaneously addressing work-style reform and diversity management, the Fujitsu Group has developed the Fujitsu Group Health Statement to make it clear that we will situate the health of our employees as the cornerstone of our operations. Furthermore, taking our internal company accomplishments up to this point into account, we are strategically implementing health maintenance and improvement or our employees and their families.
  Fujitsu Group Health Statement and Key Measures https://www.fujitsu.com/global/imagesgig5/fujitsu-group-health-statement_en.pdf. 
Domestic Structure for Promoting Health Management and. 
Conducting Reviews. 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-2-2. 
The structure for promoting health management is led by the Chief Health Officer, in coordination with the Human Resources. 
Unit, the Health Promotion Dept., and the Fujitsu Health Insurance Society. Together, the team works to enforce, enhance and expand health promotion measures at offices and group companies. The team regularly holds meetings with related divisions within the group, including those related to health care, and implements company-wide data-based initiatives that follow the. 
PDCA cycle.
Targets and Results. 
Fujitsu and domestic group companies set numerical targets for priority measures (at the same time as data health planning by the Fujitsu Health Insurance Society) and engage in various initiatives to achieve those targets. 
Priority. 
Measures Evaluation Index. 
FY2015. 
Achieve- ments. 
FY2016. 
Achieve- ments. 
FY2017. 
Achieve- ments. 
FY2018. 
Achieve- ments. 
FY2019. 
Achieve- ments. 
FY2020 FY2023. 
Goals. 
Countermeasures for lifestyle- related diseases. 
Percentage of high- risk individuals *1 - - 1.3% 1.1% 1.3% 0.9% 0.6%
Percentage of those classified as overweight 15.4% 15.3% 15.5% 16.3% 17.5% 13.2% 12.9%
Cancer counter- measures. 
Percentage of gynecological consultations 53.2% 55.6% 55.4% 56.2% 59.4% 57.5% 60.0%
Mental health counter-measures. 
Percentage of those taking a leave of absence for mental health reasons *2 0.83% 0.76% 0.70% 0.74% 0.71% 0.66% 0.60%
Smoking counter- measures. 
Percentage of smokers 21.6% 22.6% 22.0% 21.1% 20.6% 22.0% 20.0%
Improvement of health awareness. 
Percentage of participation in walking events - - - 15.2% 25.1% 30.0% 36.0% 
The target group is employees at domestic group companies. The percentage of those taking a leave of absence for mental health reasons is limited to full-time Fujitsu Ltd. Employees 
*1 The percentage of people who are judged to be high-risk individuals for high blood pressure, diabetes and chronic kidney disease, based on health checkup data *2 The percentage of employees absent or on leave for one month or longer, due to mental health conditions during the fiscal year, calculated by dividing by the number of applicable employees by the number of employees enrolled at the end of the fiscal year.
Major Initiatives. 
Countermeasures for Lifestyle-Related Diseases. 
Fujitsu and domestic group companies provide support for independent health management by carrying out health checkup in accordance with legally mandated health examination items, with additional items by age group, as well as offering checkup results via online systems and providing information such as health risks and changes over time. In addition, with regard to employees who have abnormal findings after receiving checkups, we aim to improve their lifestyle habits, and provide thorough. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-2-3 medical checkups and consultations, through health guidance and medical examination recommendations supplied by occupational physicians and occupational health staff. For employees who have been diagnosed as needing treatment due to their test results, the. 
Fujitsu Health Insurance Society monitors their medical prescriptions for three months to prevent their post-diagnosis condition from worsening, and recommends checkups for employees who have not undergone treatment, which leads to appropriate medical care. In addition, family members of employees (spouses of those enrolled in the Fujitsu Health Insurance Society, and family members 40 years of age and older) are able to undergo the same health checkups as employees (including cancer screenings).
  Project to Prevent Diseases from Becoming Severe https://www.fujitsu.com/global/imagesgig5/Project_to_Prevent_Diseases_from_Becoming_Severe%28en%29.pdf. 
Cancer Countermeasures. 
Fujitsu’s basic policy for taking steps against cancer is engaging in prevention through improvement of lifestyle habits, as well as early detection through health checkups and treatment. We promote regular additional screenings for stomach cancer, colorectal cancer, and prostate cancer when employees undergo legally prescribed health checkups, based on age group. The Fujitsu Health. 
Insurance Society conducts gynecological examinations (cervical cancer and breast cancer) for all female employees.
In FY2019, in response to forecasts that the number of people affected by cancer would increase due to employee aging and a growing number of female employees, we held “Cancer Prevention and Support for Balancing Work and Treatment” e-learning seminars for all group employees in order to equip them with accurate knowledge about cancer, and to lead to prevention through improvement of lifestyle habits, as well as early detection through health checkups and treatment. That initiative was well-received externally.
Mental Health Countermeasures. 
We support employee self-care by providing stress diagnostic tools, while integrating analyses of group results with ES surveys and other internal company surveys and providing feedback to management.
By offering stress management education and holding workshops to build healthy and enthusiastic workplaces, Fujitsu reduces employee stress and provides support to energize the places where they work.
In workplaces, we deployed support staff for managers, known as. 
Work Environment Improvement Support Staff. Through awareness of employees’ working situations and regular communication, we can detect the unwell at an early stage, leading to pre-emptive responses in coordination with the Health Promotion Unit.
For stress checks, in addition to supporting employee self-care through checkups, we provide feedback to management and organization heads by integrating organizational analysis results with employee opinion surveys and other data. We combine these efforts with work-style reforms and other measures to lead to better working environments. In addition, for workplaces with high levels of total health risk and workplaces with many employees who have been evaluated as highly stressed, we offer stress management education and workshops for creating healthy workplaces to provide support for reducing employee stress factors and energizing the places where they work.
A system that allows employees to view health checkup results on their PC or smartphone. 
A stress diagnostic tool and individual results. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-2-4. 
Smoking Prevention Measures. 
Fujitsu and domestic group companies work to ensure that smoking and non-smoking areas in offices are strictly separated, in order to protect employees from the harmful health effects of secondhand smoke.
In order to protect employees from the effects of smoking on one’s health, we promote initiatives to lower the percentage of people who smoke. These initiatives include building awareness toward quitting smoking through a No Smoking day on the 22nd of every month and holding seminars so that smokers will accurately understand the health effects of smoking, as well as support and subsidies for treatment to quit smoking. The “Let’s Stop Smoking Together” Challenge, an event held once a year by all domestic group companies where smokers and non-smokers form teams to tackle quitting smoking, has improved awareness of quitting smoking and an attitude of fostering measures against smoking, group-wide and in all workplaces.
Improvement of Health Awareness. 
Fujitsu and domestic group companies work to improve employees’ health awareness through the implementation of post-health checkup measures, e-learning, education by level, various seminars for health education, and a variety of events relating to exercise, diet and smoking, among other initiatives.

Health Education  Company-wide e-learning: Once a year, through e-learning seminars for all domestic group employees that bring up major health topics, we strive to help them acquire knowledge and improve their health awareness.
 Education by level: Regular employees We provide self-care-related education through e-learning when employees enter the company and when they advance in level.
Managers We provide managers with education for taking care of employee mental health when they are promoted to manager, and as part of the management education they receive every three years.
 Company-wide seminars: We conduct seminars relating to exercise, rest, diet, quitting smoking, and women’s health, among others. In addition to physical attendance at the venue, we conduct video broadcasts so that all employees at domestic group companies can watch the seminars.
 Office seminars: We hold seminars on themes such as mental health and physical fitness, in accordance with the issues of each office.
* Refer to FY2019 Performance: Health Education Accomplishments for more information.

Events  A company-wide walking event, “Let’s Walk Together”
This event, held twice a year in spring and fall, has employees use smartphone apps and other tools in team/individual competitions based on their average steps over the course of one month. Incentives were awarded to teams and individuals, such as the employees with the highest average step count, those who walked over 8,000 steps a day on average, and those who successfully walked over 8,000 steps every day.
The same initiative, implemented as a Global Challenge, takes place around the world as well. Over 2,000 employees participate every year, centered around those in EMEIA (Europe, Middle East, India and Africa).
 A quitting smoking promotion event, “Let’s Stop Smoking Together”
Two to five non-smokers form a team with one smoker, who attempts to quit smoking over three months with the support of the team. Teams that successfully get their smoking member to quit are awarded incentives.
 A nutrition education event, “Let’s Learn About Food Together”
We have declared the 19th of every month to be Food Education Day. In addition to introducing healthy recipes using seasonal ingredients and information about health effects via email newsletters, we prepare special menu items using those ingredients at the employee cafeterias all over Japan, and work to improve employee awareness of what they eat.
* Refer to FY2019 Performance: Events for more information.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-2-5. 
Health Initiatives for Female Employees. 
Fujitsu and domestic group companies hold seminars and distribute email newsletters that are related to health issues that are specific to female employees. By allowing all employees to participate in the seminars and receive the email newsletters, not just females, we encourage all employees to have accurate knowledge and be interested in female-specific health issues to create better working environments for women.
As a measure for diversity promotion and female career support, we conduct education on what to pay attention to from a health perspective, as part of seminars that are conducted for employees who have returned from childcare leave and department heads with employees who have childcare-related circumstances.
  For employees who have returned from childcare leave - Diversity promotion forums for employees who have childcare- related circumstances –Balancing work and childcare from a health perspective–  For managers - Management seminar for department heads with employees who have childcare-related circumstances –
Physical and mental changes women undergo during pregnancy, childbirth, and childcare, and what managers should pay attention to–
Support for Balancing Work with Medical Treatment. 
The fundamental idea at Fujitsu and domestic group companies is that employees should undergo proper treatment, then return to work after recovery. We have established various leave systems and income support mechanisms so that employees can have peace of mind and devote themselves to medical treatment. We provide support from medical staff while an employee is on leave, so that they can make a smooth return to work. When they return, we conduct joint discussions with the occupational physician (occupational health staff), HR, the employee’s department head, and the employee themselves, and review their post-return work duties and employment considerations.
In order to provide support for employee treatment while they are on leave and for their return to work, we offer a guidebook aimed at the employee and their supporting department head and family members. The guidebook, entitled “How to Spend Your. 
Days While Undergoing Treatment,” is a compilation of information to be aware of, including treatment objectives, how desired treatment should be, how to think about returning to work after recovering, and procedures for returning to the workplace.
Infectious Disease Countermeasures. 
Fujitsu and domestic group companies actively engage in countermeasures to keep employees safe from various infectious diseases by establishing health consultation services and dispensing information, among other initiatives. As preventative measures against infectious diseases, we give seasonal influenza vaccinations at companies, in addition to giving vaccinations to employees stationed overseas which are recommended in each place they will be staying (at company expense). With regard to the issue of rubella, which has been growing in recent years, we are cooperating with local governments to conduct education and public awareness campaigns.
Response to the Novel Coronavirus. 
In response to the spread of the novel coronavirus, we have established a dedicated telephone hotline and email consultation service to respond to employees and their family members who have health concerns. We provide instructions to put them at ease, and so they can take appropriate action and seek medical care. In addition, the Fujitsu Clinic (Kawasaki City, Kanagawa. 
Prefecture) is dealing with people who are worried about infection, in conjunction with health care centers and regional specialist medical institutions.
As for our response from a mental health perspective with regard to the spread of the novel coronavirus and the new work style centered around working from home, we have set up a system for occupational health staff to respond to people who would like to have a consultation or undergo counseling, in addition to encouraging self-care through employee self-checks using our stress check system.
We also offer important information for the physical and mental health of employees and their families, such as information. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-2-6 about the novel coronavirus and how to work comfortably from home (with regard to exercise, diet, smoking, mental health, and work environment), on our internal company website.
With regard to work style, we are thoroughly engaged in remote work to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, and we have changed face-to-face meetings to Skype meetings or conference calls. To exercise consideration for employees who have had issues from a physical and mental health perspective due to the increase in remote work, and to respond to the needs of employees who are having difficulty working due to the closure of places like schools, day care centers and kindergartens, and nursing care facilities, we have newly established the following special leave as a temporary measure.
 *1 Special leave: All employees receive 10 days of special leave (100% fully paid), which is separate from their annual and accumulated leave *2 Family support leave: Employees who are having difficulty working due to their need to support children who are elementary school age or younger, or family members who require long-term care, will receive family support leave (at 80% of their wages) in addition to special leave. 
Assessments from Outside the Company. 
Certified as One of the White 500 Health and Productivity Enterprises. 
The Health and Productivity Enterprises certification system recognizes enterprises that are engaged in particularly excellent health and productivity management, based on initiatives that correspond to regional health issues and health betterment initiatives promoted by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi. As a company which considers the health management of employees from a management perspective and tackles strategic initiatives to deal with it, Fujitsu was certified as one of the top 500 enterprises (the White 500) by the Health and Productivity Enterprises, marking its fourth consecutive certification since 2017.
One domestic group company was certified in the White 500 (top 500 enterprises), 12 companies were certified in the large-scale enterprise, and four companies were certified in the small to medium-scale enterprise category.
  Large-scale enterprise (White 500): Fujitsu Software Technologies  Large-scale enterprise category: PFU, Fujitsu FSAS, Fujitsu Communication Services, Shimane Fujitsu, Fujitsu Kyushu. 
Systems, Fujitsu Learning Media, Fujitsu YFC, Fujitsu Marketing, Shinko Electric Industries, Fujitsu FIP, Fujitsu Social Science. 
Laboratory, Fujitsu Frontech  Small to medium-scale enterprise category: Best Life Promotion, Mobile Techno, G-Search, Fujitsu FSAS Kansai Customer. 
Service. 
Received Partner Award (Information Provision Category) from the Government for Promoting Cancer Countermeasures. 
Fujitsu received a partner award (information provision category) in the 2019 awards for cancer prevention measures by the. 
Cancer Countermeasures Corporate Action Project(*3), conducted by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. Our initiatives that were well-received and led to the award were our advanced education initiatives for all employees in domestic group companies, themed around cancer prevention and support for balancing treatment and work, which combined lectures from a cancer specialist (Chairman Nakagawa from the Cancer Countermeasures Corporate Action Project) with e-learning.
 *3 A national project commissioned by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare that aims to raise the number of people who undergo cancer screenings to 50% or higher, and build a society where people can work even if they are stricken with cancer. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-2-7. 
Nominated for the Grand Prize at the Women’s Body Forum Awards 2020. 
Fujitsu’s e-learning initiatives for cancer prevention and support for balancing work and treatment, which were targeted at all employees of domestic group companies, was nominated for the Grand Prize at the Women’s Body Forum Awards 2020 by Think. 
Pearl, an association which promotes female health education and preventative medicine. The announcement of the grand prize and special prizes will be made at the award ceremony of the 6th World Women’s Body Forum 2020.
Social Contribution Initiatives. 
Fujitsu contributes to better physical fitness and increased productivity for all of society, by offering and presenting things such as health management and practical cases of health and productivity management in various forms, as well as research results, to places outside the company. In addition, we accept occupational physicians, medical students, nursing students and others for training within the company, and contribute to the human resources development of occupational health staff.
* Refer to FY2019 Performance: Social Contribution Initiatives for more information.
FY2019 Performance. 
Percentage of Employees with Health Concerns. 
Target: Full-time employees of Fujitsu Ltd. at the end of the fiscal year Respondents who exercise regularly: Percentage of those who said they exercise regularly when they underwent health checkups 
 Body fat: Neutral fats of 150mg/dl or higher and HDL cholesterol below 40  Obesity: BMI of 25 or higher  Blood pressure: Systolic blood pressure of 130mmHg or higher and diastolic blood pressure of 85mmHg or higher  Percentage of smokers: Those who said that they smoke when they underwent health checkups  Percentage of smokers: Those who said that they smoke when they underwent health checkups  Blood sugar level: People with a blood sugar level over 110mg/dl or an Hba1c level over 6.0% who are receiving treatment for that particular item. 
Percentage of Employees Who Took a Long-Term Leave of Absence or Medical Leave. 
Target: Full-time employees of Fujitsu Ltd. at the end of the fiscal year. 
Percentage of people who had taken a leave of absence or taken medical leave for a continuous period in excess of one month by the end of the fiscal year. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-2-8. 
Health Education Accomplishments (Fujitsu) 
 Company-wide e-learning:
Theme: Cancer Prevention and Support for Balancing Treatment and Work  Basic knowledge about cancer / cancer prevention / cancer screenings (early detection and treatment)
For all employees/Number of participants: 30,466  Support for Balancing Work with Cancer Treatment. 
For managers/Number of participants: 6,472  Education by level:  Health education when joining Fujitsu (e-learning), 975 employees who took the e-learning seminar (Number of employees joining the company in FY2019)  Education when advancing in level (e-learning), 2,882 employees who took the e-learning seminar (Number of employees who were promoted to G3 or G4 in FY2019)  New manager training (group education), 457 employees who underwent training (Number of employees who were promoted to manager in FY2019)  Elective education:  Self-care training (e-learning) after undergoing a stress check, 3,000 employees who took the e-learning seminar  Company-wide seminars:  May 21, 2019 “What will change due to anti-secondhand smoke ordinances? What you should know about them and their relationship with tobacco,” taught by Kuninori Matsuo (National Cancer Center Japan), 37 employees (265 employees)  January 14, 2020 “What you should know about cancer: behavioristics that reduce risk,” taught by Keiichi. 
Nakagawa, University of Tokyo, 154 employees (1,167 employees)  February 23, 2020 “The laws of eating, as revealed by chrono-nutrition,” taught by Shigenobu Shibata (Waseda. 
University), 118 employees (2,424 employees)( ) indicates employees who watched internal broadcasts * ( ) indicates employees who watched internal broadcasts 
 Office seminars:
Theme of seminar Number of offices that conducted seminars Number of participants. 
Mental health 22 Office 1,809 participants. 
Exercise 18 Office 1,732 participants. 
Diet and nutrition 10 Office 1,092 participants. 
Lifestyle-related diseases 8 Office 1,253 participants. 
Smoking 8 Office 741 participants. 
Other (dental health, preventing falls, migraines) 12 Office 2,950 participants. 
Events 
 “Let’s Walk Together,” a company-wide walking event. 
Spring 2019 3,456 Teams 19,463 Participants Participation rate 19.3%
Fall 2019 4,094 Teams 25,018 Participants Participation rate 25.1%  “Let’s Stop Smoking Together,” an event to promote quitting smoking 2019 Participants 249 Teams (249 smokers, 599 supporters) 201 successful quitters (80.7%) 2018 Participants 430 Teams (430 smokers, 1,060 supporters)300 successful quitters (69.8%)
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-2-9. 
Social Contribution Initiatives 
 Providing e-learning materials on cancer to external parties. 
There are plans for the materials used in the Cancer Prevention and Support for Balancing Work and Treatment e-learning seminar, which Fujitsu and domestic group companies conducted for employees in FY2019, to be made public via the. 
Corporate Action Program for Promoting Cancer Prevention (a Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare project). We expect that having the materials widely used will contribute to resolving the issue of teaching the working generation about cancer, which is important for Japan’s cancer countermeasures.
 Collaborative Development with IHS-GPAC on a Program to Remedy Migraines. 
Fujitsu is engaged in collaborative research with IHS-GPAC (International Headache Society – Global Patient Advocacy. 
Coalition) to improve employees’ quality of life and improve company productivity by (1) increasing disease awareness about migraines among employees, and (2) working to develop an in-house program to remedy migraines, the first of its kind in the world, which includes understanding the realities of disruption and loss due to workplace migraines and the promotion of projects to counteract them. There are plans for the program developed and tested by Fujitsu to be made publicly available through the International Headache Society and other organizations.
 Articles, Conference Presentations, External Presentations, Magazine Publications  Articles  Hiromitsu Sekizuka, Hitoshi Miyake. 2019 “The prevalence of atrial fibrillation in working-age adults and its relationship to lifestyle habits,” Shinzo Vol.51(No.12): 1261-1268, 2019.
Japanese Circulation Society 8th Shinzo Award Grand Prize Winner  Conference Presentations  92nd Annual Meeting of Japan Society for Occupational Health (one oral presentation, four poster presentations)  29th Annual Meeting of Japan Society for Occupational Health, National Council (four poster presentations)  External Presentations  May 25, 2019 92nd Annual Meeting of Japan Society for Occupational Health, Occupational Physician Forum “An. 
Occupational Physician’s Right to Make Recommendations from an Employer's Perspective”  October 18, 2019 Kanagawa Health Promotion Council, Occupational Health Forum “Occupational Health. 
Activities at Fujitsu, Handled in Teams”  December 5, 2019 Cancer Countermeasure Corporate Action Project, Corporate Consortium, “Cases of Support for. 
Balancing Work and Cancer Treatment”  2020/2/20 Ministry of Labour, Health and Welfare Workplace Mental Health Symposium “Creating a Workplace. 
Environment Where People Can Consult Others Easily”  Participation in Review Committees, etc.
 Ministry of Labour, Health and Welfare, member of committee relating to the review of multidisciplinary cooperation and team structures for occupational health activities  Acceptance of Occupational Physicians, Medical Students and Nursing Students for Training and Internships  Kanagawa Prefecture Medical Association, occupational medicine section, training sessions (50 people)  Community medical intern training (one hospital, three people)  Early medical school trial internships (two schools, 13 people)  Medical school field training for occupational physicians (six schools, 107 people)  Community nursing practicum and internships through nursing schools, integrated nurse internships (seven schools, 55 people)  Mental health internships for health management in companies (one school, 17 people)
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-3-1. 
Human Resources Development and Career Design. 
Goal. 
WHAT FUJITSU ASPIRES TO BE. 
The Fujitsu Group aims to enrich and continuously improve our positive health culture where our employees can work to their full potential, both in mind and body.
We value the importance of our people, and will strive to enable them to succeed in their own personal development and growth.
GOALS FOR FY2022. 
Enabling success in personal development and growth. 
KPI： Fujitsu Group aims to achieve at least 70%, in favorable answers to “Growth” question of Engagement Survey by FY2022. 
Policy. 
Fujitsu significantly revised its policies on human resource development starting in FY 2020, and made a shift in direction.
Instead of providing employee training that is the same across the board, the company will support the learning and growth of each individual employee. We aim to become a company where each employee thinks that working at Fujitsu, more than anywhere else, will enable them to experience growth. We provide support for diverse personnel with their own passions so they can learn, grow and find the careers they want to pursue. As a company, we are expanding opportunities for employees to learn and make career choices, establishing systems and mechanisms which make use of those opportunities, and systematically supporting the growth of each employee, including management, in accordance with their individual characteristics.
Structure and Periodic Review. 
Fujitsu has established a Group-Wide Talent Strategy Committee comprised mainly of executives at the management level and above. The committee meets twice a year to discuss the Fujitsu vision and human resources strategy for achieving our business strategy. As a measure for reflecting the voices of our employees, in addition to conducting an annual global opinion survey of our employees, we regularly conduct pulse surveys, questionnaire surveys and other measures, just to hear what they have to say on a more frequent basis. The Human Resources Development Unit considers and implements priority measures that take both the policies of the Group-Wide Talent Strategy Committee and employee feedback into account, along with training business leaders. The Human Resources Development Unit in each division acts as the primary reviewer of the skills and professional training that need to be enhanced based on each division’s strategy and business needs, and serves as the lead for the promotion of cross-functional human resources development for each job category.
Trainings are mainly delivered by the group company Fujitsu Learning Media Limited, which specializes in learning and development.
Human Resources Development Framework. 
Fujitsu and domestic group companies have revamped their training and development framework with the aim of enabling each and every one of our diverse employees to learn and grow in accordance with their own career aspirations and strengths, and allowing them to choose what they want to learn, whenever and wherever they want. In the past, we provided a uniform mandatory training program for all levels of employees, but we have essentially eliminated the mandatory training program in favor of a system in which employees can choose from a variety of training programs according to their own characteristics and job goals. However, we do ask employees to take the prescribed courses in the Career Ownership Program, which forms the basis for autonomous learning and growth, and in the knowledge and perspectives that are important for a Fujitsu person.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-3-2. 

Supporting the Growth of Diverse Individuals. 
Since April 2020, we have offered a platform to support the learning and growth of each and every one of our diverse employees at all times, no matter where they are, for employees at Fujitsu and domestic group companies. The content is constantly updated with a wide variety of internal and external information and courses. For example, the "Edge Talk" videos feature stories of practical knowledge shared by personnel who are experts in specific fields at Fujitsu and domestic group companies, and promote internal company learning which transcends organizational boundaries, where employees learn from each other. It also includes content and job recommendations based on individual attributes and career goals, as well as a function to display data on learning to supervisors and the individual, to create an environment which makes it easy for employees to plan what they want to learn for their careers and jobs and for supervisors to support their subordinates based on their areas of interest.
Developing Business Leaders. 
From the perspective of employees’ medium- to long-term growth,
Fujitsu has a structure for young to middle-class employees with high potential that allows them to demonstrate their own leadership and aim for further growth. In particular, in order to cultivate leaders capable of creating innovation, we carry out practical programs which draw future scenarios, involve diverse human resources, and enhance their ability to envision new business models and ecosystems. In addition, the Global Knowledge Institute (GKI), our flagship institute for training the next generation of business leaders, has produced more than 400 graduates since its establishment in 2000, including our current President, Mr. Tokita, and continues to produce management leaders who are active on the global stage. GKI President Sessions. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-2-3-3. 
Developing Digital Talent. 
In order to implement reforms for turning Fujitsu into a digital transformation (DX) company, we are strengthening our support for all employees of Fujitsu and domestic group companies to acquire knowledge and skills related to DX and the latest technologies. We have developed DX human resources development systems to serve as guidelines for all employees, and we offer numerous courses on DX literacy, technology, and industry business knowledge for each role in order to help employees acquire the DX skills they need most for their jobs. We place an emphasis on speedy business impact. Not only do we work with the Human Resources Development Unit, we also work with people in the field to identify development skills and develop courses so that employees can acquire skills which can be applied and reflected in business operations the same day they are acquired. Notably, design thinking is positioned as a component of DX literacy, and is used to establish skills and behaviors to provide support for our customers' businesses and to innovate within Fujitsu.
Developing Professional Human Resources. 
Fujitsu and domestic group companies are carrying out human resources development at each department with an emphasis on specialization closer to their respective fields. For details on human resources development at each department, please refer to the following URL.
  Cultivating Specialist Human Resources https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/employees/education/Development_specialist%28en%29.pdf. 
Career Design Support. 
Fujitsu fosters a rewarding workplace culture that values careers. At the same time, we support each employee's autonomous career development. In addition to the Career Ownership Program and career counseling that are attuned to employees' aspirations, we are expanding opportunities for career choices, including an internal posting system and career support for senior-level personnel. From FY 2020, we are significantly expanding our posting system to make open positions available to the entire Fujitsu Group, enabling all Fujitsu Group employees to take up the challenge and apply for these positions. In this way, employees can autonomously think about the career plans they want to achieve and aim for transfers and promotions of their own choosing. Through one-on-one dialogue, supervisors provide specific advice and support to their subordinates, based on their career aspirations and characteristics. Through these efforts, we aim to increase the mobility and diversity of our human resources, and ensure that the right people are in the right places.
FY 2019 Performance 
 Average Annual Hours Spent Learning and Annual Cost of Learning Per Employee (FY 2018; tabulated in October every year) 
Managers Regular Employees Total Average. 
Average Annual Hours Spent Learning 34.8 hours 49.4 hours 45.3 hours. 
Annual Cost of Learning 61,100 yen 91,300 yen 82,300 yen. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3. 

 

 


Global Responsible Business 
- Environment - 

In line with the "FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision”, a Medium- to Long-Term Environmental Vision for 2050 which clarifies the role to be played in tackling global climate change as well as the future vision to be realized, we will work on to achieve zero emissions of the CO2 from our own operation by 2050, and contribute to climate change adaptation as well as a de-carbonized society through technology supporting digital transformation.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-1. 
Environmental Management Environmental Policy. 
Since its founding in 1935, the Fujitsu Group has made environmental preservation one of the most important elements in its management, based on its philosophy of "manufacturing in harmony with nature." We have formulated the Fujitsu Group. 
Environmental Policy to promote environmental management reflecting the distinct character of our businesses.
In 1992, when Agenda 21(*1) was adopted at the Rio de Janeiro Global Summit, we established Fujitsu’s Commitment to the. 
Environment. This was created in the mold of the Global Environment Charter, announced by the Japanese Federation of. 
Economic Organizations in the previous year. In October 2002, when the Johannesburg Summit was held, and summit participants were debating how to execute Agenda 21 in a more effective way, we revised this Commitment to create a Fujitsu. 
Group Environmental Policy. Our objective in this revision was to implement environmental management in a way that reflects the distinct character of the Fujitsu Group’s business, responding to more and more diverse problems where environmental management is increasingly vital.
 *1 Agenda 21:
A concrete plan of action for sustainable development, to be carried out by various countries and international organizations. It involves programs to deal with environmental issues, including social and economic problems such as population, poverty and human settlement issues, as well as soil, forests, the atmosphere, desertification, agriculture, biodiversity, water, hazardous wastes and chemical materials.
 
Philosophy. 
The Fujitsu Group recognizes that global environmental protection is a vital business issue. By utilizing our technological expertise and creative talents in the ICT industry, we seek to contribute to the promotion of sustainable development. In addition, while observing all environmental regulations in our business operations, we are actively pursuing environmental protection activities on our own initiative. Through our individual and collective actions, we will continuously strive to safeguard a rich natural environment for future generations.

Principles 
 We help customers and society reduce the environmental impact of their business activities and improve environmental efficiency with comprehensive services that include advanced technologies, ICT products and solutions.
 We proactively promote environmentally conscious business activities to help the environment and economy coexist harmoniously.
 We strive to reduce the environmental impact of our ICT products and solutions throughout their entire lifecycle(*2).
 We are committed to conserving energy and natural resources, and practice the 3Rs approach (reduce, reuse and recycle) to create best-of-breed eco-friendly products and solutions.
 We seek to reduce risks to human health and the environment from the use of chemical substances and waste.
 We disclose environment-related information on our business activities, ICT products and solutions, and utilize the resulting feedbacks to critique ourselves in order to further improve our environmental programs.
 We encourage our employees to work on global environmental conservation such as tackling climate change and preservation of biodiversity through their business and civic activities to be role models in society.

Revised in April 2011. 
President. 
Fujitsu Limited 

*2 The lifecycle includes "Procurement", "Distribution and Logistics", "Development and Manufacturing", "Usage", "Recycle and Management of. 
Waste", etc. The stakeholders through the lifecycle represent "Suppliers", "Contractors", "Clients", "Business Partners" and so on.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-2. 
Environmental Management Environmental Management System. 
We are continuously working to improve our ISO14001 (*1) based environmental management systems and to promote Group- wide environmental management.
 *1 ISO14001：Environmental Management Systems (EMS) standard determined by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).
Certification is granted to environmentally conscious organizations that develop systems for ongoing reductions in their environmental footprint.
Fujitsu Group’s Environmental Management Systems (EMS) 
Fujitsu has constructed Environmental Management Systems (EMS) based on the ISO 14001 international standard and is promoting environmental improvement activities across the Group. After acquiring ISO 14001 certification for Japanese consolidated subsidiaries at the end of FY 2004, we expanded this effort to include overseas subsidiaries and acquired global integrated certification in FY 2005.
Environmental Management Framework. 
In April 2020, Fujitsu set up the Sustainability Management Committee, which leads the charge for management which takes sustainability initiatives into account. The Sustainability Management Committee has established major sustainability issues which are common globally (Global Responsible Business: GRB) and is working to address them, and the environment is one of those to be addressed. In “environmental initiatives“ medium-to-long term visions considered and activity policy discussed and decided, and business operations being considered with risks and opportunities from climate change, with regular reports into. 
Sustainability Management Committee, which aim of raising the level of the EMS and strengthening its governance. Based on that, final approvals on environmental management at the Fujitsu Group are made at meetings of the Management Council.
Within the Sustainability Management Committee, we have organized environmental issue-specific working groups, etc., composed of relevant parties that go beyond the framework of business groups and business units. Through this promotion structure, we are moving swiftly to popularize initiatives for addressing environmental issues throughout the Group.
We have also established an Environmental Management Working Group (WG) which is working to unify information transmission throughout the entirety of the Group, in addition to strengthening EMS activities.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-3. 
Constructing and Operating Environmental Management Systems. 
The Fujitsu Group has constructed EMS based on the ISO 14001 international standard and is promoting environmental improvement activities across the group. By constructing EMS worldwide, the Fujitsu Group further strengthened its Group governance. This also allows the Group to promote even more efficient and highly effective environmental activities, including understanding the state of activities, legal compliance, and emergency response.
As of March 2020, the Fujitsu Group has acquired global integrated ISO 14001 certification for a total of 61 companies of Fujitsu and its Japanese Group companies, as well as for 7 overseas Group companies.
Activity Flow. 
The Sustainability Management Committee reviews and conducts deliberations about the new challenges and activities directions of “environmental initiatives”, which related to whole group companies regarding the operational status and achievement of goals with regular report. For example, the committee determines the directions to be taken for reduction of energy consumption and CO2 emissions, countermeasure for environmental risk, and other environmental medium-to-long term visions. The Sustainability Management Committee also conducts environmental management reviews and is exercising approval authority for the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan.
Issue-specific Working Groups are sub-organizations set up under the supervision of the Sustainability Management Committee, with the goal of providing dedicated responses to address specific tasks professionally. The tasks of the issue-specific Working. 
Groups are discussing objectives and confirm the progress and promote to achieve for the Environmental Action Plan. The Top. 
Management(Environmental) gives approval and issues directions in response to the progress reports made by the issue-specific. 
Working Groups.

Management Based on the Line/Site Matrix Structure. 
The Fujitsu Group carries out its environmental management within a matrix structure combining (1) “line activities” directly tied to the business operations of various divisions and companies (including development of eco-friendly products and the expansion of environmental contribution solutions) and (2) “site activities” to tackle common themes affecting each factory or business location (such as energy conservation and waste reduction).
In this way we carry our environmental management according to the same framework as our management, while also reducing the environmental footprint generated by our business activities and the sale of our products and services.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-4 
 Case Studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/ems/case-studies/
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-5. 
Environmental Management Case Studies, Initiatives in Environmental Management. 
Operations Utilizing ICT. 
The Fujitsu Group actively utilizes its own ICT-driven environmental management tools to visualize and boost the efficiency of its environmental management.
EMS Operations Using ICT. 
The Fujitsu Group employs its own ICT-driven environmental management tools. Examples include the Global Environment. 
Database System (Ecotrack) which can centrally manage aspects such as planning, performance, and policy information, at business sites scattered throughout the world, and the ISO 14001 Green Management System (GMS) which centrally manages compliance and risk management status to support EMS operations. These tools are employed to visualize environmental management and make it more efficient.
Additionally, the communication infrastructure of all companies in the Fujitsu Group is used for EMS operations. For example, we try to conduct smart communication in our EMS operations, through activities such as using remote video conferencing systems to conduct EMS briefings.
Using the Global Environment Database System. 
The Global Environment Database System (Ecotrack) is used to gather information about the environmental footprint (performance) of Fujitsu Group companies and business sites and centrally manage aspects such as planning, performance, and policy information.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-6. 
Using the ISO 14001 Green Management System. 
The ISO 14001 Green Management System (GMS) is used to exercise unified control over the operational status of the EMS with regard to improvements in and conformance issues relating to findings from internal audits, communications activities, direct and indirect effects identified in environmental impact assessments, and the setting of environmental management objectives and targets.
GMS enables corrective measures and objectives to be certainly managed, and effectively ensures continual improvement of the activities with reduced risks.

Implementing Environmental Audits. 
Internal Audit Implementation and Results. 
The Fujitsu Group conducts internal audits, a requirement of ISO 14001. To ensure the objectivity and independence of internal audits, the Internal Control and Audit Office takes the lead, allocating internal auditors who belong to Fujitsu or Fujitsu Group companies and carries them out.
In FY 2019, we carried out internal audits of 188 Japanese and 11 overseas business sites, including the factories and offices of. 
Fujitsu and Group companies. When conducting the audits, we scrutinized the results of FY 2018 internal and external audits.
The three points emphasized were (1) compliance, (2) operational control, and (3) resources for achieving goals.
There were 30 total findings (both Japan and overseas) of which 23% were related to ISO14001 2015, in addition to other findings such as methods for managing chemical substances and industrial waste. We are receiving cooperation from external experts thoroughly knowledgeable in regulations and operations, and as a result of carrying out internal audits with the aim of improving compliance, the number of findings has been decreasing each year.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-7. 
External Audits and Results. 
To maintain our ISO 14001 certification, we are carrying out external audits by a certifying body. In FY 2019, we were audited in. 
Japan by the Japan Audit and Certification Organization for Environment and Quality (JACO). Outside Japan, we were audited by. 
DNV GL Business Assurance Japan K.K.
As a result, there were 36 opportunities for improvement in Japan, and 14 overseas. There were two findings in Japan and four findings overseas, and the corrective actions have been taken. Those were shared throughout the Group in order to help efforts to prevent recurrences.

Number of Findings by Audits. 
FY2017 FY2018 FY2019. 
Number of findings by internal audits 122 102 30. 
Number of findings by external audits 8 3 6. 
Number of opportunities for improvement 126 113 50. 
Compliance with Environmental Laws. 
There were no major legal or regulatory violations or accidents with major impact on the environment in the Fujitsu Group during. 
FY 2019.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-8. 
Environmental Management Response to Environmental Risks. 
Environmental Risk Management Structure. 
The Fujitsu Group built and operates a group-wide risk management system to identify, prevent, and mitigate a variety of potential risks, or prevent their recurrence, including issues related to climate change and environmental pollution. The Risk. 
Management & Compliance Committee, which reports directly to the Board of Directors, has set up regional Risk Management &
Compliance Committees, in addition to deploying Risk Management & Compliance Officers to each Fujitsu division and Group company in Japan and overseas, to build a structure where these organizations cooperate with each other to promote risk management and compliance throughout the Fujitsu Group, both in terms of preventing potential risks and responding to risks that have emerged. The Committee identifies, analyzes, and assesses key risks associated with the business activities of each. 
Fujitsu division and Group company in Japan and overseas (focusing on 33 risks considered to be important to the Group), and formulates and reviews the countermeasures for these risks after confirming the status of countermeasures for avoiding, mitigating, transferring, or retaining them. The Committee makes regular reports to the Board of Directors about key risks that have been identified, analyzed and assessed, using methods such as the creation of visualized rankings and maps which take the degree of impact and likelihood of occurrence into account. In addition, we have put response processes into place in the event that risks become tangible, despite the implementation of various measures. Each division and Group company will immediately report to the Risk Management & Compliance Committee about any key risks that become tangible, such as natural disasters, accidents, product accidents or failures, system or service problems, compliance violations such as fraud, information security incidents, or environmental problems.
We also leverage the group’s Environmental Management System (EMS), which is based on ISO14001, for minimizing risks to the environment through continuous improvements.
  Risk Management https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/riskmanagement/  Environmental Management System https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/ems/
Efforts to Minimize Risks to the Environment. 
Dealing with Risks Related to Climate Change. 
There is a possibility of significant impacts on our business continuity from increases in the frequency and effects of natural disasters as a result of recent climate changes. For that reason, we have formulated a business continuity plan and are devoting effort to continually revising and improving the plan.
Furthermore, the implementation of stricter regulations for greenhouse gas emissions and a carbon taxes creates a risk of increasing the energy cost incurred by the Fujitsu Group, as well as the cost required for measures aimed at reducing greenhouse gases. Additionally, if climate change countermeasures are insufficient, there is a risk of harm to our corporate reputation or a disadvantage at bidding. In order to minimize these risks, we are conducting short-term, medium-term and long-term risk analysis/response within our company-wide risk management structure. Moreover, based on the FUJITSU Climate and Energy. 
Vision, we are working to achieve net zero CO2 emissions by 2050 and to contribute to mitigation/adaptation for climate change through business.
In accordance with the recommendations issued in 2017 by the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), the. 
Fujitsu Group analyzes and discloses information related to risks accompanying climate change that may have an impact on business and financial strategies. Refer to the table below for the currently recognized potential major risks and responses.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-9. 
Risks Associated with the Transition to a Low Carbon Economy, and Our Response to Them. 
Policy/
Legal Risks ● Risks: Increase in cost in order to respond to the strengthened laws and regulations on greenhouse gas emissions and energy use, and diminished corporate value in the event of a violation.
○ Response: Complete compliance with laws and regulations through EMS. Continual reduction of the amount of GHG emissions through steady implementation of Science Based Targets and the. 
Environmental Action Plan.
Technology Risks ● Risk: Unrecovered investments and market share decline in the event that the company lags behind in a fierce competition in technological development toward a carbon-free society.
○ Response: Enhance development of energy-efficient products and energy-efficient enabling technologies, solutions, and services through steady implementation of Science Based Targets and our. 
Environmental Action Plan.
Market Risks ● Risk: Losing business opportunities if products, solutions, and services do not meet energy-saving performance needs.
○ Response: Enhance development of energy-efficient products and energy-efficient enabling technologies, solutions, and services through steady implementation of Science Based Targets and our. 
Environmental Action Plans.
Risks to. 
Reputation ● Risk: Decline in corporate value and an increase in response costs associated with a negative assessment from stakeholders on the response status of measures to counteract climate change.
○ Response: Enhance measures to counteract climate change and promote reduction of environmental footprint through steady achievement of the group's Science Based Targets and Environmental Action. 
Plan.

Climate Change Related Risks in the Supply Chain, and Our Response to Them. 
Upstream Supply. 
Chain ● Risk: A temporary suspension of the suppliers' business activities due to the occurrence of severe natural disasters such as large-scale floods, sudden heavy downpours, and lightning strikes, which affects the procurement of materials.
○ Response: Conduct surveys of the business continuity capabilities of suppliers and implement measures to procure materials from multiple sources.
Downstream. 
Supply Chain ● Risk: Losing business opportunities due to the inability to obtain environmental labelling, which is a green procurement requirement of customers.
○ Response: Conduct trend surveys and risk assessments of the environmental labelling scheme.
Develop and provide top-level energy-efficient products through steady implementation of Science. 
Based Targets and our Environmental Action Plan.
  RELATED INFORMATION:
Fujitsu Group Responses to the CDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2019 (Risk-Related Questions) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/environment/risk/Fujitsu_Limited_CDP_Climate_Change_Questionnaire_20 19.pdf. 
Assessing and Monitoring of Potential Water Risks. 
In recent years, the supply and demand for water has become strained in many areas around the world due to a variety of factors, such as population growth and climate change, and there is a growing concern that this may become a business risk. The. 
Fujitsu Group conducts assessments of and monitors potential water risks for direct operations sites and supply chains.
In particular, the Group uses tools and databases provided by NGOs and governments at both country and municipal levels to check the status of water stress and the risk of natural disasters in the areas where businesses are located. We then comprehensively assess the water risk at each site by analyzing how important water use is in the business activities of each operations base, and we confirm the level of compliance in a variety of activities such as the reduction of water intake, measures to reduce pollution in wastewater, business continuity management (BCM) systems, and others. For the supply chain, we also assess our suppliers' flood preparedness and other water risks based on the supply chain BCM surveys, field surveys conducted. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-10 according to the Responsible Business Alliance's (RBA) code of conduct and the CDP Supply Chain Program. As a result, we have confirmed that there are no significant risks that could substantially affect our business activities.
  RELATED INFORMATION:
Fujitsu Group Responses to the CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2019 (Risk-Related Questions) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/environment/risk/Fujitsu_Limited_CDP_Water_Security_Questionnaire_201 9.pdf. 
Preventing Water Pollution. 
In order to preserve the water quality of surrounding waterways, including rivers, groundwater and sewers, we have set voluntary controls that are even tougher than legal mandates, and conduct measurement and monitoring on a regular basis. We recover and recycle chemicals used in production processes, instead of discharging them into wastewater. We are also working to properly manage and reduce discharge of harmful substances and other regulated substances (COD, BOD, etc.) by ensuring appropriate chemical use, preventing chemical leaks and penetration, and properly managing the operations of water treatment and purification facilities, among other measures.
Preventing Air Pollution. 
We have set voluntary control values that are more stringent than legally mandated emissions standards in order to prevent air pollution and limit acid rain. Regular measurement and monitoring is conducted based on these controls. Efforts are also made to appropriately process dust and soot, sulfur oxide, nitrogen oxide, and other harmful substances, and reduce emissions through measures including combustion management at facilities that produce soot and smoke, use of fuels with low sulfur content, and managing the operations of exhaust gas processing equipment. Furthermore, we have installed activated carbon adsorption treatment equipment and are reducing our atmospheric emissions of organic solvent vapors containing substances like VOCs.
Moreover, with the enactment in April 2015 of the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons, we have set in- house stipulations and striven for proper management of specified products (commercial refrigerators and air conditioners containing fluorocarbon refrigerants) while working to identify the volume of our fluorocarbon leakage.
In addition, emission of dioxins has been prevented by suspending use of all in-house incineration facilities as of January 2000.
Preventing Destruction of the Ozone Layer. 
By implementing a precision water-wash system and non-wash soldering technology, we have completely eliminated the use of ozone-depleting substances in manufacturing processes (parts washing and solvents). We have also implemented leakage countermeasures for refrigerant chlorofluorocarbons used in air conditioning facilities (freezers, etc.), and are switching to non- chlorofluorocarbon gas when updating facilities.

Results for complete elimination of ozone-depleting substances. 
Ozone-depleting substances Time of complete elimination. 
Washing chlorofluorocarbons (CFC-113, CFC-115) End of 1992. 
Carbon tetrachloride End of 1992 1,1,1-trichloroethane End of October 1994. 
Alternative chlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) End of March 1999. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-11. 
Preventing Pollution of Soil and Groundwater. 
We have established rules for soil and groundwater surveys, measures and disclosures. We review these in accordance with changes in the law and social circumstances and respond based on these rules. We systematically examine soil and groundwater, based on the rules, and if pollution is confirmed, we carry out cleanup and countermeasures at each plant according to the situation, while working together with government authorities to disclose information.
As of FY 2019, there are three business sites where soil and groundwater pollution from prior business activities have been confirmed. At those business sites, we have installed observation wells to observe effects outside the site due to groundwater pollution, while also working on purification measures through water-pumping aeration, etc.
 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-12. 
Business Sites Where Soil or Groundwater Contamination Has Been Found. 
Site Name Location Cleanup and Measure. 
Execution Status. 
Maximum Value Found at Observation Well (mg/L)
Regulated. 
Level (mg/L) Substance Measured Value. 
Kawasaki. 
Plant. 
Kawasaki City,
Kanagawa. 
Prefecture. 
We are continuing to clean up VOCs by pumping and aeration.
1, 2-dichloroethylene 2.7 0.04. 
Chloroethylene 5.4 0.002. 
Oyama. 
Plant. 
Oyama City,
Tochigi Prefecture. 
We are continuing to clean up VOCs by pumping and aeration.
Tetrachloroethylene 0.014 0.01. 
Trichloroethylene 0.597 0.03 1, 1-dichloroethylene 0.314 0.1 1, 2-dichloroethylene 3.658 0.04. 
Chloroethylene 0.616 0.002. 
FDK. 
Washizu. 
Plant. 
Kosai City,
Shizuoka. 
Prefecture. 
We are continuing to clean up VOCs by pumping and aeration.
Cis-1, 2-dichloroethylene 0.45 0.04. 
Trichloroethylene 0.18 0.03. 
Tetrachloroethylene 0.18 0.01. 
Chloroethylene 0.0047 0.002. 
Chemical Substance Control. 
To prevent pollution of the natural environment or damage to health due to the use of harmful chemical substances, we are controlling the use of some 1,300 substances using our original Chemical Information System called "FACE" and working to appropriately control and reduce emissions at our business sites.
  Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX): Reducing Chemical Substances Emissions https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/chemical/ 
With regard to chemical substances included in products, we have determined banned substances according to regulations in. 
Japan and worldwide and are working to thoroughly control them, not only inside the Group but also with business partners who deliver materials and products to us.
  Green Procurement https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/procurement-policy/
Appropriately Processing Waste. 
We regularly carry out on-site audits in order to confirm that subcontractors are appropriately handling the waste processing tasks we entrust to them.
In addition, with regard to high concentration polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) waste (transformers and condensers) processing, we have registered with the Japan Environmental Storage & Safety Corporation (JESCO), which handles temporary storage and disposal of PCB waste under government supervision, and are carefully carrying out processing based on JESCO plans.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-13. 
Environmental Liabilities. 
In properly assessing the Fujitsu Group’s expected future environmental liabilities, and communicating our integrity and corporate stance of not deferring our environmental liabilities, we have recorded liabilities of 2.77 billion yen in soil pollution cleanup costs, high-level polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) waste disposal costs, and asbestos processing costs during facilities demolition, which is the amount we calculate, as of the end of FY 2019, to be necessary for the Fujitsu Group to conduct these tasks domestically in the next fiscal year and beyond.
Conserving Biodiversity. 
Recognizing that our business activities benefit from the riches of the Earth’s biodiversity, while at the same time impacting it, the Fujitsu Group considers the conservation of biodiversity to be an important issue, and formulated the Fujitsu Group. 
Biodiversity Action Principles in October 2009. We promote them based on the two pillars of reducing the impact of our business activities on biodiversity and contributing to the creation of a society that conserves biodiversity, and implement various policies to conserve biodiversity through leveraging ICT and other means.
  Policy Example 1: Project for Recognizing Blakiston’s Fish Owl Vocalizations. 
We offer vocal recognition software used for habitat surveys of Blakiston’s fish owls, which are an endangered species. The software helps the surveys to be more efficient by automatically extracting their cries, greatly reducing the time for analysis.

Project for Recognizing Blakiston’s Fish Owl Vocalizations https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/environment/activities/owl//index.html 
 Policy Example 2: Support for the Harapan Rainforest (Forest of Hope)
We provided support for reforestation activities in the Harapan Rainforest (Forest of Hope) on the Indonesian island of. 
Sumatra. Through the introduction of ICT, we greatly improved the efficiency of patrols in the forest, contributing to forest conservation.

Providing Support for the Harapan Tropical Rainforest (Forest of Hope) (Indonesia) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/environment/activities/global/fujitsu_supports_rainforest_conservation _in_indonesia.pdf 
 Policy Example 3: Activities to Make Tsushima, An Island Facing a Severe Plastic Waste Pollution Problem, Greener. 
We conducted eco-tours sponsored by Fujitsu Limited and conducted by Fujitsu Group employees. We also held a coastal cleanup and an ideathon to come up with solutions to local issues.

Tsushima, An Island Facing a Severe Plastic Waste Pollution Problem https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/activities/japan/ecotours/
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-14. 
Environmental Management Green Procurement. 
We are implementing green procurement alongside our business partners, to provide customers with products and services that have light environmental footprints.
Procurement Activities Based on Green Procurement Direction. 
The Fujitsu Group summarized its requirements for business partners regarding the purchase of green parts, materials, and products, in the "Fujitsu Group Green Procurement Direction." This standard is posted on a multilingual basis (in three languages) in order to promote penetration to our business partners. We make an effort to communicate by various means, such as briefing sessions or individual meetings if necessary. Through such activities, the Group implements green procurement activities and promotes procurement from business partners that fulfill the green procurement requirements (see below) together with partners in Japan and overseas.
Using the Fujitsu Group Environmental Survey Sheet, we conduct annual monitoring of our business partners' statuses with regard to environmental management systems, CO2 emission reduction, biodiversity preservation, and water resource preservation activities, and ask them to take appropriate measures. When making requests, we provide them with various kinds of information—such as guidance on activities to reduce CO2 emissions, explanatory documents related to water risk, and the water risk information tool AQUEDUCT—which have been useful for our business partners.
  Fujitsu Group Green Procurement Direction https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/procurement/green/ 
Green procurement requirements for business partners. 
Requirements Business partners (materials/parts)(*1)
Business partners (non- materials/parts) 1. Establishment of environmental management systems (EMS) ✔ ✔ 2. Compliance with regulations for Fujitsu Group specified chemical substances ✔ - 3. Establishment of chemical substance management systems (CMS) ✔ - 4. CO2 emission control/reduction initiatives ✔ ✔ 5. Biodiversity preservation initiatives ✔ ✔ 6. Water resource preservation initiatives ✔ ✔ *1 Business partners (materials/parts): Business partners that supply components for Fujitsu Group products or OEM/ODM products. 
Establishment of Environmental Management Systems. 
We request our business partners to establish environmental management systems (EMS)(*2) as a base for ensuring that they independently and continuously improve their environmental-preservation activities. In general, we prefer them to have third party-certified EMS. If this is not possible, we ask them to build EMS incorporating the PDCA cycle suited to their circumstances.
 *2 EMS: Environmental management systems. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-15. 
CO2 Emission Reduction Initiatives. 
The Fujitsu Group also asks our business partners to work toward CO2 emission reduction in hopes of addressing climate change.
Specifically, we ask them to clearly express the intentions of their initiatives and request that they make efforts to achieve the objectives they set. We also ask them to collaborate with external organizations, where possible, and encourage their own suppliers to make similar efforts, in order to expand the initiatives outside their respective businesses. Our annual Supply Chain. 
Business Continuity Survey gives us a clear picture of how business partners are responding to a variety of climate-change risks, including tsunamis, floods, and torrential rains.
Water Resource Conservation Initiatives. 
As populations grow rapidly and water sources become progressively more contaminated, the increased need for water around the world, as well as water resource scarcity, has become an international challenge. Water resource conservation initiatives are necessary, even in business activities. The Fujitsu Group asks its business partners to investigate and understand the water risks associated with their own companies, and engage in water resource conservation initiatives, such as preventing water pollution and reducing water use.
Acquiring and Managing Information on Chemical Substances Contained in Products. 
Countries around the world are establishing legal regulations as to the chemical substances contained in products, for instance the RoHS directive (*3) and the REACH regulation (*4). The scope of such regulations is expanding on an almost day-to-day basis, covering more and more substances, products, and applications.
The Fujitsu Group, using chemSHERPA (*5) as its standard format, investigates and acquires information on the chemical substances contained in our products. We share our findings with Group companies via our internal system, and allow relevant parties to access the information whenever necessary. We have established a system that allows for quick adaptation to revisions of laws/regulations and the enactment of new legal systems.
 *3 RoHS directive: Directive on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment *4 REACH regulation: Regulation for Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals *5 chemSHERPA: Chemical Information Sharing and Exchange under Reporting Partnership in Supply Chain. 
Establishing a Chemical substance Management System (CMS) for Product Substances. 
The Fujitsu Group not only asks business partners for information on chemical substances contained in their products; we also ask them to establish a Chemical substances Management System (CMS), based on the industry-standard JAMP (*6) guidelines on the management of chemical substances contained in products. Doing so enables the Group to comply even more thoroughly with laws and regulations related to the chemical substances contained in our products.
The Group also carries out CMS audits in order to confirm appropriate establishment and operation of such CMS. More specifically,
Fujitsu's auditors implement on-site evaluation of the management status of the chemical substances contained in our business partners’ products. If there are any inadequacies, auditors make requests for corrections and provide support for their enactment.
Even after the establishment of CMS, we maintain awareness of its operation status through periodic audits.
 *6 JAMP: Joint Article Management Promotion-Consortium.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-16. 
Environmental Management Environmental Training and Awareness Activities for Employees. 
The Fujitsu Group conducts various environmental education and awareness activities based on the belief that “Greater environmental awareness and proactive efforts among all employees are essential for pursuing environmental management.
Comprehensive Environmental Training. 
All employees undergo environmental e-Learning to facilitate a basic understanding of environmental management. In addition to training for new employees and for managers, training is also conducted on a per-division basis. Specialized trainings such as internal auditor training and training for those in charge of waste practices are also conducted for employees who are in charge of environment-related tasks.

Raising Awareness through an In-House Award Scheme. 
The Environmental Contribution Award. 
To raise environmental awareness among employees at all Fujitsu Group companies, we have established an Environmental. 
Contribution Award Scheme to recognize business and activities contributing to the environment. The award scheme is open to all employees and has been implemented every year since 1995. In FY 2019, in addition to the existing Environmental. 
Contribution Award Scheme, we established SDGs Special Prize Scheme and issued a wide-ranging call for activities that contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which aim to address societal challenges by dealing with environmental issues. We received submissions that covered a diverse array of topics.
  Winner of the FY 2019 The 1st Award (Environmental Contribution Award)
Combining construction of a system with an uninterruptible power supply that considers reduced CO2 emissions by adopting fuel cells and BCP measures for major services. 
They adopted a fuel cell power generation system capable of reducing CO2 emissions by approximately 35% at Kumagaya. 
SSC by utilizing clean energy.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-17. 
Combined with this, they established an uninterruptible power supply by selecting a method that does not rely on the supply infrastructure in the event of a natural disaster, etc. and also constructed BCP measures system for service continuity.
  Japanese only:
Fuel Cell Power Generation System Introduced at the Kumagaya Service Solution Center https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/group/frontech/about/resources/news/press-releases/2020/0129.html. 
In addition, CO2 reduction by optimizing transportation schedule using the Digital Annealer also won the same award. Other than The 1st Award, winning entries included contributing to achieving the world's highest level of weather forecasting accuracy through the use of supercomputers, constructing a cloud-based BEMS with users that contributes to energy saving, major electricity savings through world's best technology for accelerating deep learning, constructing a collaboration scheme that encourages companies to collaborate on environmental technologies, a digital rice trading platform with an integrated supply chain solution running on blockchain for sustainable rice exchange, and a chatbot to support COVID-19 infection prevention measures.
In-House Environmental Seminar and Workshop. 
Believing that the first step toward the realization of a sustainable society is to be aware of social and environmental issues and international trends, we conduct environmental seminars for our employees periodically.
June: Special Lecture “Social & Environmental Issues Resolved by Parking Space Sharing Service” 
We invited Genki Kanaya, President & CEO of akippa Inc., which sums its management philosophy up in the word “indispensable” and is active as a problem- solving company, to deliver an in-house lecture. In his remarks, he took up everything from troubles involved in human transport to the congestion and shortage of parking space related to transport and traffic, and further to the accompanying environmental problems. He went on to describe how he started the parking space sharing business, its business models and other factors for the resolution of these issues.
akippa Inc, CEO Kanaya. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-1-18. 
Communication Through the Internet and Social Media. 
By disseminating information through the Internet and having lively exchanges of ideas via social media, we encourage employees to think of environmental and societal issues as personal ones.
Spreading Internal Awareness About the Issue of Plastic Waste. 
In addition to reducing plastic waste through conventional business activities, starting in June 2019, we have worked to reduce the amount of disposable plastic used in offices, and conducted activities to raise employee awareness. We developed campaigns that used the company’s internal website and social media, and worked to spread awareness within the company while listening to what many employees had to say.
  In June, we conducted a campaign on our internal website that declared we would use reusable shopping bags with the aim of reducing disposable plastic waste, such as shopping bags. More than 3,000 employees posted messages.
 In December, we established a group for “Sustainable Consumption Activities” on. 
Yammer, our internal SNS, and conducted a campaign for employees to bring their own bottles. By conducting a campaign in conjunction with our efforts to move away from drinks in plastic bottles sold by vending machines at our business sites in Japan, as well as the elimination of plastic straws at company cafeterias, we had lively exchanges of ideas about everyday eco-friendly activities, and how the Group can contribute to environmental and social issues.
 In addition to a report posted on our public website about the eco-tour to. 
Tsushima held in November, which was themed around the issue of marine plastic waste, we posted a video primer on YouTube to explain the problem. Our efforts to raise awareness are not just within the company.
 (Links)  Tsushima, An Island Facing a Severe Plastic Waste Pollution Problem https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/activities/japan/ecotours/  [Primer] What is the Marine Plastic Waste Problem? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l0EbmdfhguI. 
Poster for the reusable shopping bag declaration. 
Yammer community site, “Sustainable Consumption Activities”
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-2-1. 
Medium- to Long-Term Visions and Targets Focused on Climate Change Issues The Fujitsu Group Medium/Long-term Environmental Vision FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision. 
The Fujitsu Group has established the “FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision, ”a medium- to long-term environmental vision with the goal of bringing the Fujitsu Group’s CO2 emissions to zero by 2050, as well as contributing to the achievement of a decarbonized society and the adaptation to climate change, through provision of technologies and services supporting digital transformation.
The Importance of Responding to Climate Change. 
Climate change, which will have a significant long-term impact on countries and regions around the world, is an important issue for us as a global company. Disasters caused by climate change will disrupt procurement, logistics and energy supply networks, making it difficult to procure parts and energy for our business sites. Tighter regulations on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions will affect our operations, and the ICT products and services we provide to our customers will also need to be made more energy- efficient. If we fail to provide products and services with excellent energy efficiency in response to regulatory and market demands, we could suffer business losses and a decline in our corporate reputation. At the same time, through innovations in AI,
IoT, and other advanced technologies, it is a great business opportunity for us to form ecosystems with customers and various stakeholders, contribute to the decarbonization of society—by taking actions such as reducing the power consumption of customers and society and expanding the use of green power—and provide services and solutions which facilitate adaptation to climate change.
The Fujitsu Group considers climate change to be a serious issue (materiality) that must be addressed, and we have been actively working to meet the goals we previously set in our Environmental Action Plan. Furthermore, in order to contribute to addressing the issue as a leading company, we recognized the need for the Fujitsu Group to have a long-term vision and tackle the issue as a united group. We gathered knowledge and engaged in dialogue with various stakeholders through interviews with outside experts and the activities of external organizations. Taking these into account, the Environmental Management Committee*, led by the President, formulated the Fujitsu Climate and Energy Vision, our medium- to long-term environmental vision with regard to climate change, and we made it public in May 2017.
 *Its name in 2017. Now the Sustainability Management Committee.
Concept. 
As an international framework of measures against global warming starting in 2020, the Paris Agreement, which sets a goal of limiting the rise in global average temperature to less than 2°C above the average temperature prior to the industrial revolution, came into effect in November 2016. In order to achieve this, the goal to “achieve a balance between emissions and removals of greenhouse gases (GHG) in the second half of this century” has been set, and a shift to a decarbonized society will be necessary beginning in 2050.
Various change are taking place in the global market as well, and it is expected that regulations on CO2 emissions will be tightened, carbon taxes and other carbon pricing will be applied to more countries, and carbon tax will rise sharply. In addition, investment taking into account Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors is expanding, which is also exerting a significant influence on market rules.
This vision has three pillars, namely, “Our Business: Achieve Zero CO2 Emissions”, “Mitigation: Contribute to a Decarbonized. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-2-2. 
Society” and “Adaptation: Contribute to Measures in Society to Adapt to Climate Change”. The Fujitsu Group aims to use ICT effectively to accelerate its own efforts to shift away from carbon, and by providing the knowledge gained from such efforts to customers and society as solutions, leverage its own business activities as a way to mitigate and adapt to climate change.

Note) Paris Agreement: New framework adopted by the 21st Session of the Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate. 
Change for measures to combat climate change starting in 2020.
Vision1 Achieving Zero CO2 Emissions in the Fujitsu Group. 
The Fujitsu Group established a scenario for reducing CO2 emissions where it would gradually reduce them to zero in three phases by 2050, with its intention to take the initiative as a global ICT company to strive to create a decarbonized society. This scenario has been established with scenarios recommended by the Science Based. 
Targets (SBT) initiatives. It is also consistent with the 2°C goal (*1). At present, we are conducting reviews of our actions aimed at meeting a target of 1.5°C, based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate. 
Change (IPCC) Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C released in. 
October 2018, and changes in certification to the SBT standard of 1.5°C.

PhaseⅠ 
In PhaseⅠ(until 2020), from the perspective of usability and economic efficiency of the technology, in Japan, we will horizontally deploy energy conservation technologies that already exist, verify new energy conservation technologies that use AI, etc. and move forward with the use of low-carbon energy. Overseas, we will proactively implement renewable energy, focusing on the EU.
PhaseⅡ 
In PhaseⅡ (until 2030), the Fujitsu Group will work to establish and spread a transition to AI and ZEB (*2), etc. to accelerate the reduction of emissions. Further, we will expand strategic implementation of renewable energy, which is expected to be easier to use in Japan as well, with consideration given to local characteristic and economic efficiency.
PhaseⅢ 
In PhaseⅢ(2030 and after), we will accelerate implementation of increasingly easy-to-use renewable energy, while supplementing with offsets from carbon credits, with an eye towards deploying and deepening innovative energy conservation technologies and shifting away from carbon.
The Fujitsu Group intends to increase the use of renewable energy in the electricity consumed at Fujitsu Group locations to at least 40% by 2030 and to 100% by 2050 with the membership gained in July 2018 to RE100. RE100 is a collaborative initiative led by The Climate Group in partnership with CDP, for companies committed to source 100% of the electricity they use from renewable sources.
 *1 The GHG reduction target, with the Group’s carbon credits subtracted, was approved by the SBT initiative.
*2 ZEB: Zero Energy Building. A building with significantly reduced yearly energy consumption achieved through conservation of energy in its structure and facilities, and thorough creation of energy by using solar power generation, etc.
The Roadmap to reduce the Fujitsu Group’s CO2 Emissions to. 
Zero by 2050. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-2-3. 
Vision 2 and 3 “Contributing to a Decarbonized Society” and “Contributing to Measures in Society to Adapt to Climate Change” 
The Fujitsu Group believes that ICT has the potential to contribute to the mitigation of and adaptation to climate change. To that end, we have established “Mitigation: Contribute to a Decarbonized Society” and “Adaptation: Contribute to Measures in Society to Adapt to. 
Climate Change” as pillars of Fujitsu's medium/long-term environmental vision, and are utilizing advanced ICT to create social innovation that contributes to resolving global environmental issues.

Vision 2 Contributing to a Decarbonized Society. 
The Fujitsu Group contributes to the decarbonization of society by creating ecosystems with customers in a variety of industries and business types. The key point of mitigation measures is the utilization of AI and other advanced digital technologies to maximize energy efficiency. We will achieve optimal usage of energy for the overall societal system by incorporating those technologies into a mechanism that crosses the boundaries between businesses, industries, and regions.
Vision 3 Contributing to Measures in Society to Adapt to Climate Change. 
The key point of measures to adapt to the impact of climate change is advanced measuring technology using AI, big data, and simulations through sensing technology and high-performance computing (HPC), etc. Fujitsu will utilize these to create solutions to enable creation of a resilient societal infrastructure and stable supply of agricultural products, as well as solutions to minimize food product loss, thereby contributing to the minimization of damage to our customers and society caused by climate change.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-2-4. 
Medium- to Long-Term Visions and Targets Focused on Climate Change Issues Medium- to Long-Term Targets. 
The Fujitsu Group participates in the following initiatives with the aim of making the Fujitsu Climate and Energy Vision—its medium- to long-term environmental vision—a reality.
Approval by Science Based Targets (SBT) Initiative. 
In August 2017, the reduction targets of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from its business facilities and a part of value chain, set by Fujitsu Group, was approved by Science Based Targets (SBT) initiative as being at science based level. The SBT initiative was established in 2015 jointly by a number of organizations, including the World Resources Institute (WRI) and UN. 
Global Compact. It encourages companies to set goals for reducing GHG emission based on scientific evidence, in order to limit the global temperature increase to less than 2°C over pre-industrial revolution temperatures.

Targets  To reduce GHG emissions from our business facilities by 33% by FY 2030 and 80% by FY 2050 in comparison to FY 2013.
 To reduce GHG emissions from our business value chain (purchased goods and services, and the use of sold products) by 30% by FY 2030 in comparison to FY 2013.
Joining RE100 as Japan’s First Gold Member. 
In July 2018, Fujitsu joined RE100, which strives to significantly expand the adoption of renewable energy at a global scale, as. 
Japan's first Gold Member. RE100 is an international initiative led by The Climate Group in partnership with CDP and consists of companies committed to source 100% of the electricity they use from renewable sources.
The Fujitsu Group will consider the appropriate steps for each region and expand its procurement of electricity from renewable sources at locations in Japan and around the world, starting with data centers outside Japan. The Group will concurrently continue its work on R&D and technology trials for energy management and storage, and contribute to the spread of renewable energy in society as a whole.

Renewable Energy Electricity Usage Goals at Fujitsu Group Locations  Goal ：100% by 2050  Intermediate Goal ：40% by 2030. 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 

5-3-2-5. 
Medium- to Long-Term Visions and Targets Focused on Climate Change Issues TCFD-Based Information Disclosure. 
The Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) was established by the Financial Stability Board at the request of. 
G20 with the objective to reduce the risk of instability in the financial market due to climate change. The task force announced its recommendations in June 2017 asking companies and organizations to gain understanding of and disclose the risks and opportunities arising from climate change. The Fujitsu Group announced its support for the TCFD recommendations in April 2019 and strives to disclose information in line with the recommendations, including responding to CDP (*1).
 *1 CDP:
An international nonprofit organization which offers the only global system for measuring, disclosing, managing and sharing important environmental information of companies and cities. CDP is working together with the world's leading institutional investors to encourage companies to disclose their impact on the environment and natural resources, and to take steps to mitigate that impact.

Item Response Status Reference. 
Governance. 
Under our system for promoting environmental management, we have established the Sustainability Management Committee chaired by the President.
This committee deliberates on medium- and long-term issues, makes policies, shares the risks and opportunities arising from climate change, determines measures to tackle them and manages the progress of these activities. It also reports the results of these activities to the Board of Directors at the meetings of the Management Council. In addition, we analyze and respond to risks faced throughout the Group, including those from climate change, under the supervision of the Board as part of our Group-wide risk management system.
 Sustainability. 
Management in the. 
Fujitsu Group  Environmental. 
Management System  Risk Management. 
Strategy. 
Based on the analyses of risks and opportunities arising from climate change in the medium to long term (2030-2050), we have formulated the FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision, a medium- to long-term environmental vision through 2050.
As the world strives for decarbonization, we recognize that any delay in action can lead to risks. Therefore, this vision aims to promote zero CO2 emissions from our company using ICT and contribute technology services that support digital innovation to build a decarbonized society and cope with climate change, including turning know-how gained into services.
 Medium- to long-term environmental vision. 
Risk. 
Management. 
The Fujitsu Group manages risks through committees and management systems. Our risk management system starts with identifying and evaluating risks. We then rank the risks by the frequency of their occurrence and impact level, and the relevant committees determine measures to avoid, mitigate, transfer or accept them as well as check the progress of such measures. Major risks are periodically reported to the Board of Directors.
 Response to. 
Environmental Risks  Environmental. 
Management System  Risk Management. 
Indicators &
Targets. 
We have formulated the medium- to long-term vision to tackle climate change in the medium to long term, and the Environmental Action Plan for short-term targets. We manage the progress of our strategy by monitoring the indicators set in the vision and action plan.
 Medium- to long-term environmental vision  Fujitsu Group. 
Environmental Action. 
Plan. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-1. 
Environmental Action Plan Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan. 
Operating Environment and Growth Strategy. 
Changing Environmental Activities in Line with Our Business Model Transformation. 
Originally a manufacturer of telecommunications equipment, Fujitsu developed into a global ICT enterprise with vertically integrated operations in three sectors: Technology Solutions offers a range of IT-based services and solutions, Ubiquitous. 
Solutions designs and manufactures products such as PCs and mobile phones, and Device Solutions is responsible for developing the semiconductor business. Structural reforms undertaken since FY 2015 have channeled most management resources into the core sector of Technology Solutions. In FY 2019, Fujitsu repositioned itself as a Digital Transformation (DX) enterprise that aims to make full use of digital technologies in the creation of innovative services and business processes.
The nature of the Fujitsu Group’s environmental impact has changed as a result of this modified business model. As an example, most energy consumption in the past was linked to the manufacture of PCs and our semiconductor and electronic component operations, but that requirement is declining significantly. Conversely, the expansion of cloud computing and the Internet of. 
Things (IoT) is driving increased power consumption in data centers, and this growing trend is expected to continue. We are therefore focusing at present on energy conservation, efficiency enhancements and the use of renewable energy in our data centers. In this way, the Fujitsu Group implements environmental activities that respond to the demands of society while also supporting the corporate growth strategy.
Operating as a Responsible Global Corporate Citizen. 
Recent years have seen a further ramping up of demand for initiatives aimed at building sustainable communities on a global scale, including the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the United Nations and the coming into effect of the COP 21 Paris Agreement. The Fujitsu Group employed a materiality analysis in a Groupwide review designed to enhance the effectiveness of activities that aim to contribute to sustainable development. This analysis identified seven priority issues including the environment; human rights, diversity and inclusion; wellbeing; and supply chain. The result is a unified framework under the banner of Global Responsible Business (GRB), which will oversee activities that strengthen initiatives in non-financial areas while striving for ‘sustainability management’ worthy of a responsible global corporate citizen.
History of the Environmental Action Plan. 
Environmental Awareness Contributes to Sustainability for Our Customers and Society. 
The Fujitsu Group has formulated an Environmental Action Plan since 1993 and continues to broaden the scope of its environmental activities. Between stages I and V (FY 1993-2009) the objective was to significantly reduce the environmental impact of the Fujitsu Group itself. Far-reaching measures were implemented throughout our factories and offices to cut CO2 emissions and chemical pollutants, to reduce waste, and so on. In stage VI (FY 2010-2012), we expanded the focus of our activities to three important initiatives. In addition to strengthening measures to lessen our own impact on the environment, we supported similar efforts by customers and society as a whole and also took on the challenge of conserving biodiversity.
During stages VII and VIII (FY 2013-2018), we clearly demonstrated our intention of using technology to contribute to the resolution of environmental challenges for our customers and society. To further reduce our own environmental footprint, we extended activities to include key partners and the whole supply chain. The Fujitsu Group will continue responding to the. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-2 demands of changing times and will deepen and further develop its environmental activities with the goal of helping to create a sustainable and rewarding society.
Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX)
Aiming for Results with Medium- to Long-Term Targets Focused on Climate Change and Resource Issues. 
With the goal of achieving a decarbonized society, global initiatives such as Science Based Targets and RE100 are at the forefront of growing calls for reductions in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and greater use of renewable energy. In addition, restrictions on importing waste plastics by some Asian nations and the problem of marine plastic pollution have made the management of plastic waste an international issue. On a positive note, there is enhanced corporate focus on contributing to the SDGs and heightened expectations of seeing the SDGs incorporated into more business strategies.
In light of this background, the Fujitsu Group formulated Stage IX of its Environmental Action Plan (FY 2019-2020) based on a structure of four critically important categories. To address issues in the supply chain and in three areas of societal challenge, namely climate change, resource circulation and the SDGs, a total of 11 targets were set. These are described in the tables below.
In terms of climate change, for example, we have defined milestones for our targets in the FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision (*1) and under global initiatives, and we have specified key performance indicators and tasks to achieve those targets. As part of these efforts, we are working to drive improvements in power usage effectiveness and to strategically boost the use of renewable energy in data centers – a sector generally forecast to record significant growth in GHG emissions.
We are focusing our resource circulation efforts on reducing waste linked to plastics used in packaging, while also continuing to cut the volume of waste generated during manufacturing and to work on other initiatives, including conserving and recycling resources in ICT products.
The Fujitsu Group is consolidating activities throughout its supply chain to ensure that the environmental impacts and risks related to climate change and resource conservation are understood and mitigated. We are also continuing to contribute to the achievement of the SDGs through the provision of ICT services.
 *1 FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision – Refer to this website for details: https://www.fujitsu.com/global/microsite/fujitsu-climate-and-energy-vision/ 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-3. 
Climate Change. 
Targets (till the end of FY 2020) Performance in FY 2019 1. Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emission from business sites by more than 14% (compared to FY2013).
Reduce GHG emission by 2.1% year-on-year through voluntary efforts.
24.7% reduction and 2.4% reduction through voluntary efforts 2. Improve PUE (Power Usage Effectiveness)(*2) of our data centers by 2% or more compared to FY 2017. 1.9% improvement 3. Increase renewable energy usage by more than 20% compared to FY2017. 19.6% increase 
*2 PUE (Power Usage Effectiveness): An indicator of the efficiency of electric power usage by the data center. This value is calculated by dividing the data center's total electric power consumption by the electric power consumption of servers and other ICT devices. The closer the value is to 1.0, the higher is the efficiency.

Resource Circulation. 
Targets (till the end of FY 2020) Performance in FY 2019 4. Promote eco design for resource saving and circulation and increase resource efficiency of newly developed products by 25% or more (compared to FY 2014). 23.9% increase 5. Reduce amounts of waste generated by an average of more than 5% compared to FY 2012-2014 (Target 14,226t/year or less). 18.0% reduction 6. Maintain over 90% resource reuse rate of business ICT equipment. 91.1% achievement 7. Reduce total water usage by 1% compared to FY2017. 0.9% reduction 8. Limit the release of chemical pollutants (PRTR) to less than the average of FY 2012-2014 (Target 17.4t/year or less). 8.7 tons. 
Supply Chain. 
Targets (till the end of FY 2020) Performance in FY 2019 9. Reduce CO2 emission due to power consumption during product usage by more than 14% (compared to FY2013). 23% reduction 10. Drive activities to reduce CO2 emissions and conserve water resources in the upstream supply chain.
 Reducing CO2 emissions: Requests to implement reduction activities were relayed via the Fujitsu Group’s key partners (approximately 750 companies) to secondary partners (more than 57,000 companies).
 Conserving water resources: Completed requests to the. 
Fujitsu Group’s key partners (approximately 750 companies) to undertake activities.

SDGs. 
Targets (till the end of FY 2020) Performance in FY 2019 11. Contribute to the achievement of SDGs through ICT services.
 Internal staff initiatives: Held 28 presentations, workshops, etc.
 External business promotion initiatives: Held 27 presentations, events, etc.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-4. 
Environmental Action Plan Climate Change. 
External Trends. 
Cutting GHG Emissions to Ensure a Global Temperature Rise of Less than 2°C. 
The Paris Agreement, adopted in December 2015, set out a long-term, shared worldwide goal of limiting the average global temperature increase to less than 2°C over pre-Industrial Revolution temperatures (hereafter referred to as the 2°C target), as well as the goal of carbon neutrality (zero real emissions) by the second half of this century. Correspondingly, moves aimed at achieving a decarbonized society have been accelerating on a global scale.
The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) was established in December 2015 by the Financial Stability. 
Board, which includes participants representing central banks, financial regulatory authorities and finance ministries from major countries. The TCFD requests companies to use climate scenarios such as the 2°C target to evaluate the climate-related risks and opportunities to their business and to assess and disclose the financial impact. Various international initiatives have also been launched, such as Science Based Targets (SBT), which calls for corporate emissions reduction goals designed to meet the 2°C target, and RE100, which calls for companies to source 100% of the electricity they use from renewable energy. Furthermore,
CDP(*1), which runs the global disclosure system for investment that takes into account Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors, requests that companies reduce GHG emissions by at least 2.1% year-on-year through voluntary efforts.
 *1 CDP: An international not-for-profit organization providing the only global system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage, and share vital environmental information. CDP works with major institutional investors around the world to encourage companies to disclose their impact on the environment and natural resources and to adopt measures that mitigate the impact.
Fujitsu’s Position. 
GHG Reductions are a Critical Issue for the Fujitsu Group. 
The Fujitsu Group, as an entity with global operations, is fully aware that climate change is a serious worldwide issue that spans national and regional boundaries. For example, disasters triggered by climate change can disrupt procurement, logistics and energy supply networks, which in turn interrupts the process of supplying materials and energy to business sites. Regulations governing GHG emissions have an impact on the development and production of products and services, and any delays in responding to requirements can lead to lost business opportunities.
Since launching the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan, we have treated the reduction of GHG emissions as a critical issue and worked to achieve the defined targets.
Most of the GHG emissions generated by the Fujitsu Group derive from purchased electricity, not from the combustion of oil or gas. Advances in 5G technology will lead to the expansion of cloud computing, IoT and mobile communications, thereby spurring increased power consumption in data centers, and this growing trend is expected to continue. We are therefore focusing on reducing power consumption by conducting energy conservation audits and regular power usage checks in our data centers, as well as in our factories and production lines in Japan and elsewhere.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-5. 
Approach under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX)
Focusing on Enhancing Data Center Efficiency and Expanding the Use of Renewable Energy. 
Fujitsu joined and registered for SBT and RE 100 relatively early compared to other companies in Japan. We specified our medium- to long-term targets with SBT as “to reduce GHG emissions from our business sites by 33% by FY 2030 and 80% by FY 2050 in comparison to FY 2013”, and with RE100 as “to set a target to source 100% renewable electricity by 2050, with an interim target of 40% by 2030. In the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX), we have set targets and measures based on these medium- to long-term targets.
The Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) stipulates that we will “reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emission from business sites by more than 14% (compared to FY2013) and reduce GHG emission by 2.1% year-on-year through voluntary efforts”. During the past two years, our voluntary efforts have led to GHG emission reductions in excess of 2.1% over the previous year. However, this improvement is primarily due to gains at specific facilities. To continue this positive trend it is crucial to enhance the power usage effectiveness (PUE) at data centers and to expand the use of renewable energy. In addition to conventional approaches for local cooling using aisle capping, we plan to further reduce power consumption in our data centers by boosting the efficiency of air conditioning equipment through the AI-controlled introduction of external air. Furthermore, we will deploy real-time visualization of the biased heat distribution in our data centers, not only in Japan but also elsewhere, and ensure appropriate heat distribution by optimizing the temperature of air supplied from the air conditioners and by adjusting fan speeds. In terms of renewable energy, Fujitsu intends to boost purchases of renewable energy certificates, after considering relevant regional characteristics and the economic feasibility, and to implement more on-site renewable energy capacity. Use of the Fujitsu Group’s leading-edge technological expertise in areas such as blockchain technology will also contribute to the spread and expansion of renewable energy.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-6. 
Environmental Action Plan Reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions at Our Business Sites. 
Our Approach. 
The Fujitsu Group considers the prevention of global warming an important issue. We have, therefore, formulated our medium- to long-term environmental vision, the FUJITSU Climate and Energy Vision, and aim to eliminate all CO2 emissions from our business activities by 2050.
Among GHGs, our business sites (plants and offices, as well as datacenters) primarily emit CO2 when energy (electricity, fuel oil, gas) is used, and perfluorocarbons (PFCs), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) during the semiconductor manufacturing processes. We are striving to decrease and control the volume of emission of these gases by complying with relevant laws and setting reduction targets.
Reducing CO2 Emitted During Energy Consumption. 
About 90% of the Fujitsu Group’s total GHG emissions arise from CO2 emissions due to energy consumption. Therefore, we continuously promote the following energy-saving measures to reduce CO2 emissions.
  Appropriate operation of equipment, improvement in management, and energy-saving measures focused on motive-power facilities (introduction of free cooling, inverters and energy saving equipment, fuel conversion, etc.)  Increasing efficiency by reviewing the manufacturing process (innovations in production, development of green production technology)  Maintaining appropriate room temperature for office air conditioning, saving electricity used in lighting and office automation equipment  Measuring energy consumption for visualization and promoting use of the data so collected. 
Reducing Emission of GHGs Other Than CO2. 
As for GHGs other than CO2, the Fujitsu Group mainly uses perfluorocarbons (PFCs), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) at the semiconductor divisions. We are taking continuous steps to switch to gases with lower global warming potential (GWP) and install equipment to remove harmful gases in our new and existing production lines.
FY 2019 Performance. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) FY 2019 Performance. 
Reduce GHG emissions of our business sites by 14% or more (compared to FY 2013) (*1) Reduction by 24.7% (*2)
Through our own efforts, reduce GHG emissions by 2.1% or more compared to last FY Reduction by 2.4% *1 Boundary : Business sites owned by Fujitsu and Fujitsu Group excluded MIFS※, and major data centers.
※ MIFS : Abbreviation of “MIE FUJITSU SEMICONDUCTOR LIMITED” (Currently “United Semiconductor Japan Co., Ltd.”) *2 Reduction rate based on market standards. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-7. 
Promoting Reduction in CO2 Emitted During Energy Consumption. 
We continue to invest in energy-saving equipment (introduction and upgrade of BAT (*3) equipment, mainly for air conditioning and lighting) and ensure their appropriate operation at the facilities at all business sites. We are also streamlining our production processes, saving electricity used for air conditioning, lighting and automation in offices, making energy consumption visible, and leveraging measurement data.
For instance, we improved facility operations (2,180 tons) at the Tatebayashi System Center by controlling the number of air conditioners, reviewing their operation, suspending operation of pumps and cooling devices, and taking other measures.
Through our own efforts, we carried out measures to reduce our emissions by roughly 22,000 tons (2.4% in comparison to last fiscal year).
As a result of these initiatives, we reduced our GHG emissions according to market standards in keeping with SBT, which is an objective in the Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX), by 24.7% in comparison to our emissions in FY 2013.
 *3 BAT (Best Available Technologies): Usable state-of-the-art technologies to reduce GHGs.
*4 Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) performance values for the reference year (FY 2013) and FY 2019 are the total values for business sites targeted by the Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX).
*5 CO2 conversion factors of purchased electricity are market standards in keeping with SBT for both the reference year (FY 2013) and FY 2019 performance values.
Total Emissions of 802 thousand tons in FY 2019. 
Our total GHG emissions in FY 2019 were 802 thousand tons* (output level per sales amount: 20.6 tons/100 million yen).
They increased overseas due to boundary changes (additions of. 
DC with management authority), but decreased by 13.1% in comparison to FY 2018 for reasons such as the business transfer of our semiconductor division.
 

 

 *6 CO2 emissions in Japan and overseas: The CO2 conversion factor for purchased electric power in performance reports has been calculated with a fixed value of 0.570 tons-CO2/MWh from FY 2013 to FY 2015, 0.534 tons-CO2/MWh for FY 2016, 0.518 tons-CO2/MWh for FY 2017, 0.497 tons-CO2/MWh for FY 2018, and 0.461 tons-CO2/MWh domestically and the latest IEA values overseas (by country) for FY 2019 *7 Emissions other than CO2: These are converted to equivalent amounts of CO2 using the global warming potential (GWP) for each gas.
* Indicator assured by third party *
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-8. 
Examples of Initiatives in FY 2019. 
Fuel Cell Power Generation System Introduced at the Kumagaya Service Solution Center. 
Fujitsu Frontech Co., Ltd. introduced and began the use of solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC), an environmentally friendly power generation system, at the Kumagaya Service Solution Center (Kumagaya City, Saitama Prefecture; hereafter, Kumagaya SSC). It is the first domestic example of fuel cells being introduced in the Fujitsu Group in japan.
The Kumagaya SSC provides services that require 24/7 operation, including outsourcing services for financial institutions and help desk services for distribution centers. As a result of examining the compatibility between BCP measures for major services and an environmentally friendly power supply, Fujitsu Frontech Co., Ltd. introduced Bloom Energy Japan, Limited’s fuel cell power generation system, which makes it possible to secure a stable power supply even in the event of power supply interruptions due to natural disasters, etc., and can reduce CO2 emissions.
By introducing this system, approximately 50% of the electricity consumed by the Kumagaya SSC can be covered by fuel cells, which is expected to reduce CO2 emissions by approximately 35% per year (in comparison to FY 2018), compared to a situation where all necessary electricity is procured from power companies.
Through the promotion of energy conservation and the use of clean energy, we will continue to reduce CO2 emissions and contribute to the continued development of the company, as well as the realization of a sustainable society and environment.
 
The fuel cell power generation system installed at Fujitsu Frontech’s Kumagaya SSC A fuel storage tank 
 Press Release (only in Jamanese) https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/group/frontech/about/resources/news/press-releases/2020/0129.html  Case Studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/ghg/case-studies/
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-9. 
Environmental Action Plan Improve Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) at Our Data Centers. 
Our Approach. 
Energy consumption in data centers is on the rise, due to factors such as the advances made in digitalization, and society is paying greater attention to the environmental performance of data centers.
Data centers account for approximately 30% of the CO2 emissions (FY 2019) for each business in the Fujitsu Group, and the annual rate of increase for CO2 emissions at our 28 main data centers in Japan and around the world has been around 2.0% over the six years from FY 2013 until FY 2019. Since data center CO2 emissions are expected to continue increasing along with the expansion of digitalization, it is the social responsibility of the Fujitsu Group to work toward having environmentally-friendly data centers. At the same time, it has also become an important topic to look at from a long-term perspective in terms of enhancing our business infrastructure.
FY 2019 Performance. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) FY 2019 Performance. 
Improve PUE (*1) at data centers by 2% or more. (Compared to FY 2017) PUE 1.56 - Improvement of 1.9% 
*1 PUE(Power Usage Effectiveness):
An index for power usage effectiveness at data centers. Expresses overall power consumption at data centers as a value divided by the power consumption of servers and other ICT devices. The closer the number is to 1.0, the greater the efficiency.
Promoting Activities to Achieve Our Goals. 
We are moving forward with activities to improve PUE at data centers in Japan and around the world, based on the Fujitsu Group. 
Environmental Action Plan. Although some of our activities in the fourth quarter of FY 2019 were restricted due to the global spread of novel coronavirus infections, in view of the impact of recent heat waves, we were able to achieve our goals for FY 2019 by carrying out our planned investments and conducting thorough operational improvements from the first quarter onward.
Mainly, we tackled improvements to the cooling efficiency of our air conditioning equipment, carried out additional installations for cold aisle capping, and expanded the areas for AI-controlled air conditioning. We are continuously reducing power consumption by preventing hot spots and fine-tuning the air conditioning. With regard to operational improvements, we surveyed nine items, including the condition of blanking panels and floor hole plugs, and set targets of 80% or more for the implementation of each measure. Overall, we successfully achieved about 90%. Furthermore, we are also working to expand our use of renewable energies, with the aim of achieving RE100 (*2) in tandem with our energy conservation activities.
 *2 RE100:
An international initiative which aims for 100% of power usage to be derived from renewable energy. The Climate Group, an NGO, operates the RE100 in partnership with the CDP.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-10. 
PUE values and calculation methods. 
PUE Value PUE calculation method, other. 
Range: 1.30 to 2.11. 
No. of data centers: 28  Apply the Green Grid  Work to implement improvements using DCMM. 
DCMM: Data Center Maturity Model. 
Examples of Initiatives in FY 2019. 
Making Energy Use for Cooling More Efficient Through AI-Controlled Air Conditioning. 
As a result of verifying the effectiveness of algorithms for optimizing air conditioning controls with regard to changes in IT load in server rooms at one major data center in Japan since FY 2018, we successfully developed the optimal machine learning algorithm. We began full-scale operations in the first half of FY 2019, and approximately 60% of all server rooms were covered by. 
AI controls by the end of FY 2019. We reduced the overall energy used for air conditioning by 15-20%, and we plan to continue to roll out the algorithm to include other data centers in the future.
 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-11. 
Making Energy Use for Air Conditioning More Efficient Through Operational Improvements (Initiatives with Measures That Were Implemented at 80% or More) 
We implemented fine-tuning of air handling units and countermeasures for hot spots (e.g., aisle capping and installation of blanking panels) both in Japan and overseas, and made significant contributions toward achieving the PUE improvement goals for FY 2019.
  Examples of Improvements Being Implemented (Australia)  Optimizing Server Rooms Through Adjustments to Cooling Temperature and Fan Speed. 
Through the visualization of environmental data and an energy conservation tool (EMOS (*3)), we have greatly reduced the amount of time necessary to analyze points for improvement, such as hot spots, and optimized server rooms. We also carried out additional installations for cold aisle capping at two other data centers, using similar diagnostics.
 *3 EMOS (Environmental Monitoring and Optimization Solution tool) 


Visualization of hot spots Results of adjustments to air handling units (air flow, electricity) 
 Examples of improvement measures (UK, Germany, America)  Improved air conditioning efficiency through additional installations for cold aisle capping and adjustments to the locations of grilles which blow cold air. 
In conjunction with changing the locations where racks were installed by increasing and decreasing ICT equipment, we made energy use for cooling more efficient by changing the locations of grilles which blow cold air at high speed and carrying out installations for cold aisle capping. At data centers in America, together with changing the locations of grilles which blow cold air, we adjusted air flow through variable dampers underneath the floor, and made energy use for cooling more efficient. We have also installed additional blanking panels to further improve efficiency.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-12. 
Cold aisle capping and blanking panels. 
Left – Germany Right – UK America: Location optimization for grilles which blow cold air. 
Promoting Improvements Through Better Information Sharing with Overseas Data Centers. 
In order to strengthen our cooperation with overseas data centers, we are doing our best to communicate with them by sharing information via the company’s intranet and conducting regular meetings remotely. We plan to take the methods for assessing improvement effects and the knowledge gained at each location, aggregate them into guidelines, then implement them within the Fujitsu Group so that improvements to PUE go more smoothly in the future.
  Case studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/pue/case-studies/
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-13. 
Environmental Action Plan Expand the Use of Renewable Energy. 
Our Approach. 
The popularization and widespread use of renewable energy is becoming increasingly necessary as a way of addressing global warming, securing stable energy supplies through the diversification of our energy sources, and as an energy-based foundation for economic growth.
The Fujitsu Group has established an environmental vision aimed at realizing a decarbonized society. The main pillars for this vision are a dedication to energy conservation, and the active implementation of renewable energy. To achieve this vision, we have set quantitative targets under the Environmental Action Plan, and are actively promoting the introduction and installation of solar power generation equipment at our business sites, as well as the purchase, use, and expansion of green power (electric power generated through 100% renewable energy).
FY 2019 Performance. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) FY 2019 Performance. 
Expand the amount of renewable energy used by 20% or more in comparison to FY 2017 Renewable energy use grew by 19.6%
Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) Initiatives. 
With the aim of achieving the Fujitsu Group’s medium-term environmental goal of “using more than 40% renewable energy in FY 2030), we set a FY 2020 target under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) of expanding the amount of renewable energy we use by 20% or more in comparison to FY 2017. In FY 2019, through the purchase of green power and power generation through solar panels, our renewable energy use grew by 19.6% in comparison to FY 2017.
We will continue to work toward the implementation of renewable energy in both our domestic and overseas business offices, in order to further our purchase and usage of renewable energy.
 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-14. 
Renewable Energy Procurement Principle. 
Mandatory Requirement  Renewable energy that can be reported through RE 100 activities  Power sources are Solar、Wind-power、Geothermal、Biogas、Small-hydro etc.
 Environmental value (renewable attribute) can be pursued and verified  No double counting of environmental value. 
Ex.) Amortization of environmental value of renewable energy, to be executed through the system of public agency. 
Recommended Requirement  The electric power, in which power consumption to be combined with environmental value  The electric power, in which grid power and environmental value certification to be one set (The renewable energy to be generated in the same grid)  Power balancing to be managed. In time of emergence, minimum gap of power consumption and environmental value to be generated ( within one year etc.)  To select the renewable energy, by which we can contribute to local society  For example, by selecting the renewable energy in the same area as grid consumption, we can make “Local generation for local consumption” possible.
Or to support the power generation company which makes effort to enlarge renewable energy power  To procure the power from relatively new sites, in order to contribute the enlargement of renewable energy (Additionality)  To promote new project conjuncture, then to procure the power from it, we can contribute to increase the capacity of renewable energy of whole society  To procure from the power generation site which was developed and constructed with the agreement of local society  To avoid making significant impact to the environment or society in which the power generation site is located. 
Examples of Initiatives in FY 2019. 
Introduction of Solar Panels. 
At Fujitsu Consulting India (FCI) Private Limited in India, we introduced solar panels with an electric power generation capacity of 350kW, in order to reduce electricity use and control peak electricity. The panels began generating electricity from January 2019.
Exterior of FCI solar panels 
 Case studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/renewable-energy/case-studies/
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-15. 
Environmental Action Plan Resource Circulation. 
External Trends. 
Strengthening Global Resource Circulation. 
Goal 12 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted by the United Nations in September 2015, is ‘Responsible consumption and production’. The actions urged to meet this goal include the efficient use of natural resources, the appropriate management of chemical substances and waste products throughout the entire product life cycle, and a significant reduction in the volume of pollutants emitted into the air, water, and soil. In December 2015, the European Union (EU) adopted its first. 
Circular Economy Package, which included measures to boost the sustainable use of resources and recycling as well as to stimulate job creation. This was the start of an ongoing EU program of specific policies and actions aimed at reducing environmental impact while also achieving economic growth. Given the global shift from a linear economic system to a circular one, there are expectations that companies will accelerate and broaden their efforts in resource circulation. The Problem of Plastic Waste. 
According to a 2018 OECD report, the volume of plastic waste generated globally jumped six-fold between 1980 and 2015 – from about 50 million tons to about 300 million tons – and the increase in plastic use and improper disposal were highlighted as having a serious impact on the environment. It has become widely recognized in recent years that a global response is needed to deal with the problem of marine pollution caused by plastic waste dumped at sea, and countermeasures are being taken. China and various other countries previously accepted plastic waste as a resource but are now imposing import bans or restrictions. These moves have triggered business risks, such as rising treatment costs and difficulties in securing partners to process plastic waste. Fujitsu’s Position. 
Aiming for Resource Circulation. 
The Fujitsu Group has a long-standing commitment to the “three R’s” (reduce, reuse, recycle) relating to plastics and other resources. We are continuing to promote the use of recycled plastics in our ICT products, switch from plastic to cardboard packaging materials, and reduce the number of components used in our products while making them smaller, thinner, and lighter. Another focus for Fujitsu is the recycling of resources from used ICT products and from waste generated at business sites.
Changes in our business model are resulting in reduced volumes of waste, but we will bolster our efforts to further limit waste and recycle resources in order to make a stronger contribution to a society oriented toward resource circulation. Approach under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX)
Focusing on Plastic Waste and Contributing to Resource Circulation. 
Reducing the volume of plastic waste, which accounts for approximately 20% of the total waste generated by the Fujitsu Group, is a key focus in the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX). We plan to promote material recycling and reuse activities involving our suppliers, primarily by targeting plastic packaging materials used with purchased components.
We will further reduce the amount of non-plastic waste that is generated and continue to conserve and recycle the resources used in products. To ensure continuing improvements, the Fujitsu Group will also strictly control the volumes of water and chemical substances both used and emitted, which are environmental issues that companies must address on an ongoing basis.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-16. 
Environmental Action Plan Improving the Resource Efficiency and Resource Circulation of Products. 
Our Approach. 
As risks that threaten the sustainability of society and companies continue to rise, such as environmental destruction due to resource depletion and excessive mining, major fluctuations in resource costs around the world, and concerns about the supply of rare metals, the European Commission (EC) has established a new Circular Economy Action Plan (2.0) as a growth strategic pillar of the European Green Deal, and is moving forward with measures to accelerate further implementation of resource efficiency into society. For example, the EC has proposed the Circular Electronics Initiative as a priority area, as well as maintenance for the. 
ErP eco design directive, and is promoting a circular economy through the entire life cycle of products. This is a growing trend all over the world. We believe that from the perspective of recycling resources, it is important for us to make efficient use of the resources in the ICT products that we provide to customers. We have engaged in a 3R design that draws on the principles of reduce, reuse, and recycle, and have developed our products with technology that is effective in reducing the amount of resources we use. We are also making efforts to improve resource efficiency and reduce our environmental burden by designing products to be lighter and smaller, using recycled plastics, reducing the number of parts, enhancing ease of disassembly, and improving recyclability. Our goal is to offer such products so that they provide even the customer with benefits, whether it be by making these products smaller, more lightweight, or designing them so they take up less space.
FY 2019 Performance. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) FY 2019 Performance. 
Promote eco design for resource saving and circulation, and increase resource efficiency of newly developed products by 20% or more (compared to FY 2014). Improved by 23.9%
Improving the Resource Efficiency of New Products. 
In FY 2012, the Fujitsu Group created its own definition of resource efficiency, as the Group had previously not had a system that could comprehensively and quantitatively evaluate improvements in resource efficiency, and due to the fact that there were as of yet no public indices that could measure resource efficiency.
In FY 2019, we continued to use our indicators to evaluate products newly developed by Fujitsu(*1), and worked to reduce product part quantities and reduce product size through smaller, thinner, and lighter parts and higher-density mountings.
 *1 Products newly developed by Fujitsu: Excludes products for which resource efficiency is determined by customer specifications or standards.
Achieved 23.9% Improvement in Resource Efficiency. 
By reducing the size and weight of our PCs, smartphones, mission critical x86 servers, POS tenant devices, and mobile phone radio base stations, and more, we were able to achieve an improvement in resource efficiency of 23.9%, against the 20% target value we set for FY 2019 in the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX).
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-17. 
Working Toward Our Targets. 
To improve new product resource efficiency by at least 15%, Fujitsu will continue current initiatives, while expanding development of new lightweight, rigid materials and the use of recycled materials. We will also widely publicize the eco- friendliness of our products in order to expand sales.

Definition and Calculation of Resource Efficiency. 
Examples of Initiatives in FY 2019. 
Working to Cut Down on Disposable Plastic at Business Sites and Offices. 
As the issue of plastic waste becomes more serious as an environmental and social problem worldwide, the Fujitsu Group has worked up to this point to cut down on the amount of plastic used in our business activities globally through measures such as reducing the material used in products and packaging, as well as reducing waste generation at business sites. Furthermore, in recent years, we have also been working to cut down on the use of disposable plastic in offices.
Domestically, in June 2019, we stopped offering plastic bags at our company convenience stores and shops, as well as plastic straws at our company cafés and visitor areas. With the cooperation of drink vendors and vending machine dealers, we withdrew drinks in plastic bottles and switched over to canned drinks, etc., at approximately 1,500 vending machines in the Group.
As a responsible business enterprise, it is essential for us that each and every one of the Fujitsu Group’s approximately 130,000 employees takes an interest in environmental and social issues, and works to change their own behavior. In the future, we will continue to promote reduced use of disposable plastic, as well as other sustainable activities to reduce waste, such as carrying around bags and bottles for personal use, with the aim of fostering a corporate culture that contributes to the creation of an abundant and sustainable society.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-18. 
RELATED INFORMATION. 
Environmental Education and Awareness-Raising Activities for Employees https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/education/
Video Primer About the Issue of Plastic Waste in the Ocean https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l0EbmdfhguI. 
Tsushima, an Island with a Serious Plastic Waste Pollution Problem (Tsushima Eco Tour) https://www.fujitsu.com//global/about/environment/activities/japan/ecotours/ 
 Case studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/energy-efficiency/case-studies/
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-19. 
Environmental Action Plan Limiting the Amount of Waste Generated. 
Our Approach. 
The Fujitsu Group considers wastes as valuable resources and has continued to work toward recovering resources from its waste or using the waste as a source of energy. In Japan, our volume of final waste disposal has been decreasing every year. However, the environment surrounding waste disposal remains challenging as building new disposal sites is difficult and the existing ones have limited lifespans.
We are actively working to install new equipment and reuse waste with the objective to reduce the amounts of waste acid, waste alkali and sludge generated in the production of semiconductors and printed circuit boards. These efforts are in line with Japan's. 
Fundamental Law for Establishing a Sound Material-Cycle Society to (1) reduce waste generated, (2) reuse it, (3) recycle it and (4) recover heat from it.
We have also established the company-wide Standards for Consignment of Waste Disposal to properly dispose waste, based on the Waste Management and Public Cleansing Law.
On-site Audits for Outsourcing Contractors. 
We conclude contracts with waste processing companies. These contracts are common for the whole Fujitsu Group. We conduct on-site audits of the waste processing companies with which we have contracts to periodically confirm that waste is being appropriately processed. If multiple business sites have contracts with the same processing company, then a representative business site conducts on-site audits based on the representative auditing regulations. In other cases, each business site individually conducts audits to confirm that waste processing is appropriate.
FY 2019 Performance. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) FY 2019 Performance. 
Reduce the amount of waste generated by 5% or more of the average amount generated from FY 2012 to FY 2014 (Target 14,226t/year or less) (*1) 18.0% reduction *1 Boundary : Fujitsu and Fujitsu Group manufacturing sites excluded MIFS. 
Promoting Measures to Reduce Waste Generation and Plastic Waste. 
At Shinko Electric Industry Co., Ltd., we reduced the amount of waste generated by 40 tons by changing equipment in some exposure processes to reduce the amount of masks. In addition, starting in January 2020, Fujitsu I-Network Systems Ltd. reduced the amount of waste it generated by 1.5 tons by taking parts reels, which had previously been waste material, and converting them into valuable resources. Such efforts have enabled us to achieve our target by reducing the amount of waste generated to 12,284 tons (generation rate/sales revenue: 0.32 tons/100 million yen).
In accordance with China's ban on importing waste plastic which went into effect in 2018, we have begun collaborating with external reuse companies to partially reuse parts trays used at the time of delivery of procured parts, as a new measure to reduce the amount of waste plastic we generate.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-20. 
Waste Generated, Effective Use, and Final Disposal (in tons) 
Type of Waste Waste Generated Effective Use Final Disposal. 
Sludge 1,414 1,358 56. 
Waste oil 813 798 15. 
Waste acid 720 719 1. 
Waste alkali 2,365 2,249 116. 
Waste plastic 2,659 2,612 48. 
Waste wood 991 949 42. 
Waste metal 461 461 0. 
Glass/ceramic waste 189 186 3. 
Other(*2) 2,672 2,478 194. 
Total 12,284 11,810 474 
*2 Other includes general waste, wastepaper, septic tank sludge, cinders, rubble, textile waste, animal and plant residue, and infectious waste.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-21. 
Environmental Action Plan Product Recycling. 
Our Approach. 
The Fujitsu Group's product recycling programs are based on Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) and Individual Producer. 
Responsibility (IPR). EPR holds that producers bear responsibility for products, from design and manufacturing to disposal and recycling. IPR holds that producers bear responsibility for their own products. IPR in particular has been a major challenge for the. 
Fujitsu Group as we expand our business globally. However, we believe that responding to this challenge, and that of EPR, in collaboration with industry associations and governments, will allow us to help create a recycling-minded society that meets the requirements and demands of all stakeholders.
The Fujitsu Group thus carries out recycling programs that comply with the laws and regulations of the various countries in which it operates. In Japan, Fujitsu is certified under the Industrial Waste National Permit System, which is based on the Act on the. 
Promotion of Effective Utilization of Resources, and as such, accepts industrial waste and puts them through appropriate processing at Fujitsu recycling centers across Japan. We also try to do as much collection, reuse, and recycling as we can, even in countries where recycling is not obligatory.
FY 2019 Performance. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) FY 2019 Performance. 
Maintain over 90% resource reuse rate for business ICT equipment at Fujitsu recycling centers. Achieved a 91.1% resource reuse rate.
Promoting Recycling of ICT Products. 
The Fujitsu Group has built a recycling system that covers the entire country of Japan. We have worked steadily to implement. 
Extended Producer Responsibility, providing safe and secure services with high resource reuse rates in order to promote the recycling of ICT products. We have, at the same time, also ensured thorough traceability and security of these processes.
Achieved a 90% or Higher Reuse Rate. 
We processed 3,210 tons of recycled ICT products (used ICT products for business applications) from corporate customers in Japan, and achieved a resource reuse rate of 91.1%. We have now also collected a total of 58,560 end-of-life PCs from individual customers.
Changes in Resource Reuse Rates of End-of-Life Business ICT Products (Japan) 
FY 2016 2017 2018 2019. 
Resource reuse rate(*1)(%) 92.0 91.5 91.7 91.1. 
Amount processed (tons) 4,185 3,844 3,436 3,210 
*1 Weight percent ratio of recycled parts and materials to end-of-life products.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-22. 
Changes in Numbers of End-of-Life PCs Collected from Individual Customers (Japan) 
FY 2016 2017 2018 2019. 
End-of-life PCs collected (units) 61,435 59,144 53,481 58,560 
 Case studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/recycle/case-studies/
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-23. 
Environmental Action Plan Reducing the Amount of Water Used. 
Our Approach. 
The risk of a global water shortage is on the rise, due to such factors as climate change, the destruction of forests, and the economic growth and population boom in emerging and developing countries. Such a water shortage is a risk for companies as well, since it may very well affect the survival of their businesses. As such, it is important for us to recycle and reduce the amount of water we use.
Since the Fujitsu Group uses particularly large amounts of water in the manufacture of semiconductors and printed circuit boards, we believe it is necessary to reduce our water consumption in these areas especially. In addition to our general water conservation efforts, we have also worked to reuse and recirculate water, through methods such as pure water recycling and the reuse of rainwater. We are continuing our efforts to effectively use water resources in the Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX).
FY 2019 Performance. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) FY 2019 Performance. 
Reduce water consumption by 1% in total, compared to FY 2017 (83,000 m3).(*1) 0.9% reduction compared to FY 2017 (78,000 m3 reduction) *1 Boundary : Japan ; Fujitsu and Fujitsu Group offices excluded MIFS and data centers. 
Overseas ; Fujitsu and Fujitsu Group manufacturing sites. 
The policies we established in FY 2019 to reduce water usage include reducing the amount of water used in coating and cleaning processes ,reviewing our water supply and wastewater through actions such as optimizing the water supply for our scrubbers, and reducing the amount of water supplied by introducing high-efficiency compressors, were implemented at each business site, plant, etc., so that we could make more efficient use of our water resources. As a result, in just the first fiscal year, we were able to reduce water use by 78,000 m3, which already met 94% of the target value for water reduction of 83,000 m3 that was set in the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX).
9.91 million m3 of Water Used in FY 2019 (A 28.3% Reduction Compared to the Previous Fiscal Year) 
The total amount of water we used in FY 2019 was 9.91 million m3* (output level per sales amount: 256.8 m3/100 million yen), a 28.3% reduction compared to FY 2018. 4.68 million m3 of that usage was recycled water, which was a reduction of 32.0% in comparison to FY 2018. Since the total amount of water used has decreased, recycled water makes up 47.3% of our total water usage—a 2.5% decrease from FY 2018.
 

  Case Studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/water-use/case-studies/ * Indicator assured by third party *
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-24. 
Environmental Action Plan Reducing Chemical Substances Emissions. 
Our Approach. 
Here at the Fujitsu Group, we manage approximately 1,300 types of chemical substances, in order to prevent the risks associated with the use of toxic chemical substances (health issues, pollution of the natural environment, etc.).
We operate a chemical information system called “FACE,” which we use to register and monitor chemicals at every site, manage. 
Safety Data Sheet (SDS), control income and expenditures using purchasing data and inventory data, and boost our level of management and efficiency with respect to chemical usage.
FY 2019 Performance. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) FY 2019 Performance. 
Reduce chemical pollutant (PRTR) release to less than the average level of FY 2012-2014 (Target 17.4t/year or less). (*1) PRTR: 8.7 tons *1 Boundary : Fujitsu and Fujitsu Group manufacturing sites excluded MIFS *The sites that handle less than 100 kg of chemical substances per year are excluded.
Achieved Current PRTR Substance Emission Target. 
In FY 2019, we were able to limit our Group-wide chemical substance (PRTR) emissions to 8.7 tons, which is under the reference value set in the Environmental Action Plan (Stage. 
IX).
 

 

  Case Studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/chemical/case-studies/
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-25. 
Environmental Action Plan Supply Chain. 
External Trends. 
Growing Calls for Activities and Reporting across the Entire Supply Chain. 
Traditionally, companies have been held responsible for measuring and reducing their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in two broad areas: Scope 1 (direct emissions: from company factories, offices, etc.) and Scope 2 (indirect emissions at energy sources: from energy consumed by the company, such as electricity). Following the establishment of these standards, the basis of measurement expanded to include Scope 3 (other indirect emissions). This category encompasses all upstream and downstream business activities, such as the procurement, transportation, and usage of products and services. As a result, GHG emission reductions are now expected across the entire supply chain. It is becoming an increasingly common requirement to identify and disclose GHG emissions throughout the supply chain when conducting ESG evaluations for companies and when processing procurement orders for governments and public agencies.
In addition, the TCFD recommendations(*1) call for measures to be taken against risks such as torrential rain and floods triggered by extreme and abnormal weather related to climate change. There are also growing calls to respond to and disclose potential risks faced not only by companies themselves but also by partners in their upstream supply chains.
 *1 TCFD recommendations：The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) issued a Recommendations Report in June 2017.
The Financial Stability Board established the TCFD at the request of the Group of Twenty (G20) to reduce the risk of financial market instability linked to climate change. The report includes recommendations for companies and organizations to voluntarily identify and disclose information related to risks and opportunities posed by climate change.
Fujitsu’s Position. 
Management of the Upstream and Downstream Supply Chain is Critical. 
When considering the lifecycle of Fujitsu’s business activities, approximately 90% of the Fujitsu Group's total GHG emissions are accounted for under Scope 3. Within Scope 3, the major sources of emissions are "purchased goods and services" and "use of sold products". These two categories make up around 90% of our Scope 3 emissions, so we set medium- to long-term SBT targets to focus on reductions in these two key areas. In dealing with upstream supply chains, Fujitsu is not only concerned with reducing. 
CO2 emissions but also investigates the implementation status of water risk assessments by partners, from the viewpoint of business continuity planning. If floods or water shortages impact a partner who manufactures materials or components, it is possible that costs could increase while replacements are sourced, sales opportunities could be lost, and so on.
In terms of downstream supply chains, global data traffic is continuing to increase, with the volume forecast to roughly double from 2018 to 2021, according to the 2019 edition of an annual information and communications white paper published by. 
Japan’s Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications (MIC). In the face of growing demand for data communications, we believe it is critical to develop products with even higher levels of energy efficiency.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-26. 
Approach under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX)
Promoting Reduction of CO2 Emissions and Conservation of Water Resources in the Supply Chain. 
In the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX), we set a target to drive activities to reduce CO2 emissions and conserve water resources in the upstream supply chain. Regarding reductions in CO2 emissions, we have boosted our efforts to encourage not only our primary partners, but also our secondary partners through those primary partners, to undertake activities to cut their emissions. Furthermore, we intend to support our partners' emission reduction activities by providing advice on energy conservation and direct assistance based on our own experience in this field. As for challenges regarding water, we believe that appropriate measures are necessary to respond to the specific water risk situations of our partners, and we will work with them to assess and analyze water-related risks. In addition to our in-house initiatives, in FY 2018 we started collecting information and encouraging our partners to reduce CO2 emissions, mitigate water-related risks, and cut water usage volumes through the internationally standardized methodology of the CDP Supply Chain Program(*2). To address issues in the downstream supply chain, we will pursue the development of advanced energy-saving technologies to create products with lower power consumption requirements than in the past 
*2 CDP Supply Chain Program: One element of CDP’s services, this program requests companies and government-designated suppliers to respond to a questionnaire on environmental impacts in three areas – climate change countermeasures, water resource conservation, and forest preservation – and feedback is provided on the results.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-27. 
Environmental Action Plan Reducing CO2 Emissions Through Products That Consume Less Power When in Use. 
Our Approach. 
As ICT grows more and more common, we expect there to be an increase in energy demand in proportion to the higher performance and higher-density integration of servers and other ICT products. Various countries and regions are also expanding their energy-related regulations for ICT products, and energy efficiency is taking on increasing social importance as a factor in energy label conformance and green procurement requirements.
Here at the Fujitsu Group, we believe that we should work to improve the energy performance of our products during their use, in order to reduce GHG emissions. As such, we will actively implement energy-saving technologies and continue working to further improve the energy efficiency of products. Through these efforts, we will work to promote the development of products that contribute to reduced power consumption when in use.
FY 2019 Performance. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) FY 2019 Performance. 
Reduce CO2 emissions due to product power consumption by 14% or more in comparison to FY 2013. Reduced by 23% 
Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) Initiatives. 
Based on the Fujitsu Group’s medium-term environmental goal of “reducing CO2 emissions due to product power consumption in. 
FY 2030 by 30% or more in comparison to FY 2013,” we set a target in the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) to reduce CO2 emissions due to product power consumption by 14% or more in comparison to FY 2013 in FY 2020, as a transitional year. To achieve this target, each business unit goals to improve the energy efficiency of products that were expected to be developed in FY 2019 and FY 2020, then worked to meet them. Applications of energy-saving technologies include new, high- efficiency microprocessors and power supplies, energy-saving displays, optimized energy-saving controls, and the strengthening * Indicator assured by third party *
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-28 of power management features. In addition to these, we are actively pushing for the aggregation of LSIs, reductions in the numbers of components, and the implementation of eco-friendly devices.
Attained a 23% Reduction in CO2 Emissions in Comparison to FY 2013. 
In FY 2019, as a result of applying and expanding energy-saving technologies in our servers, PCs, network devices, and imaging devices, we were able to attain a 23% reduction in CO2 emissions in comparison to FY 2013.
Working Toward Our Targets. 
In order to achieve the targets set in the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX), each unit will work to further develop products with improved energy efficiency. We will also implement advanced energy-saving technologies and expand their application to our products, as part of our cross-Group policy to improve energy efficiency.
Looking toward the future, we aim to push the development of advanced eco-friendly devices, which will contribute to revolutionary improvements in energy efficiency and allow early product development.
Examples of Initiatives in FY 2019. 
The UBT-SP FC400, a Service Terminal for Financial Institutions Which is Scalable, Compact, and Energy-Efficient. 
The UBT-SP FC400 is a control unit that governs all of the service terminals for financial institutions. Equipped with a rich variety of external interfaces, including 13 USB ports, it can be connected to various peripheral devices, such as bankbook printers, slip scanners, and cash-handling devices used at service counters. The structure and design of the system allow it to be installed either vertically or horizontally, and respond flexibly to layout changes due to banks’ reviews of their operations.
We select high-quality components that can be used and supplied for a long period of time, and by implementing high reliability and long- term operation, which are features of our financial products, we are contributing to reduced environmental impact by extending the product replacement cycle.
We have also adopted the latest power-saving architecture and reduced the number of cooling fans by optimizing the arrangement of the heat sink fins and the internal structure, and we have reduced power consumption by 15% in comparison to the previous model.
Furthermore, we preserved scalability through the abundant interfaces, and figured out ways to drastically reduce the number of parts by adopting a single-board design for the internal printed circuit board and aiming to eliminate internal cables. By doing so, we reduced its weight by approximately 19% in comparison to the previous model, and were able to create one of the most compact, lightest products in the series.
  Case studies https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/energy-efficiency/case-studies/
UBT-SP FC400. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-29. 
Environmental Action Plan Activities to Reduce CO2 Emissions and Conserve Water Resources in the Upstream Portion of the Supply Chain. 
Our Approach. 
In addition to reducing our own emissions, as a green procurement initiative, the Fujitsu Group has also been requesting its suppliers to act toward reducing their own CO2 emissions in order to help contain global warming. As a result, all of our primary suppliers have undertaken efforts to reduce their CO2 emissions.
Starting in FY 2016, we have also been expanding these efforts further upstream in the supply chain by including efforts by the suppliers of those companies (secondary suppliers from the perspective of the Fujitsu Group) in our requests.
In FY 2019, in addition to the reduction of CO2 emissions, we positioned conservation of water resources as a key theme that we needed to ask our suppliers to address. We promoted the implementation of water risk assessments as the first step in our water resource conservation activities by reviewing the questions posed on our environmental survey forms in order to understand the status of activities and the actual conditions of our suppliers.
We have participated in the CDP Supply Chain program since FY 2018, in parallel with the above-mentioned activities. Based on our international environmental research activities, we are taking a more in-depth look at the activities of our primary suppliers to reduce CO2 emissions and conserve water resources, and considering the issues and our policies.
We expect that having the supply chain as a whole work toward reducing emissions can produce even greater reduction effects (synergies), while also expanding the network of these activities through the supply chain to cover an even wider area spreading beyond national boundaries. Through efforts such as these, the Fujitsu Group hopes to help create a carbon-free future society and a sustainable water environment.
FY 2019 Performance. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) FY 2019 Performance. 
Reduction of CO2 Emissions: Drive Activities to Reduce CO2 Emissions in the. 
Supply Chain. 
Made requests for secondary suppliers (over 57,000 companies) to take action on reducing emissions through primary suppliers of the. 
Fujitsu Group (approximately 750 companies)
Conservation of Water Resources: Issue Requests for Primary Suppliers to. 
Take Action. 
Completed making requests to take action to approximately 750 of the Fujitsu Group's primary suppliers. 
Reduction of CO2 Emissions: Requesting and Supporting the Expansion of Activities to Secondary Suppliers. 
The Fujitsu Group communicated requests to its primary suppliers who account for the top 80% of the Group’s procurement volume to engage in activities to reduce their CO2 emissions, and to expand these efforts to also include their own suppliers (the. 
Fujitsu Group’s secondary suppliers). We also conducted our own environmental survey to ascertain the activity status of these suppliers. As a reference for their future activities, we then provided suppliers who responded to the survey with feedback in the form of a report that analyzed survey responses to show trends in emissions reduction activities, while also requesting further activities and expansion to the activities of their own suppliers.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-30. 
As of the end of FY 2019, 145 suppliers (roughly 20%) responded that they had requested their own suppliers to engage in emissions reduction activities, but this still amounted to a total of at least 57,000 secondary suppliers receiving such requests, giving reason to believe these efforts can have a tremendous awareness effect.

Offering Guidelines for Activities for Reducing CO2 Emissions. 
In order to facilitate the spread of CO2 emissions reduction activities throughout the entirety of our supply chain, the Fujitsu. 
Group produced an original set of explanatory materials and began providing these to suppliers. The purpose of these materials was not only to give suppliers a greater understanding of the importance of these activities taking place in the supply chain, but also to serve as something they could use to request and assist such activities amongst their own suppliers. The materials have had a strong response, being accessed more than 1,700 times since they were posted on our website at the end of November 2017. To fulfill our responsibilities as a global enterprise, the Fujitsu Group will continue to think about what must be done to contain global warming and will continue to take action.
 “Guideline for activities for reducing CO2 emissions” can be downloaded from the following sites.
 Japan: https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/procurement/material/green/index.html  Global: https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/procurement/green/ 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-31. 
Conservation of Water Resources: Adding Initiatives to Conserve Water Resources as a Key Theme for Taking Action. 
Against the backdrop of worsening water resource problems and growing international concern, in addition to continuing our work to reduce CO2 emissions as pursued under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage VIII), we positioned conservation of water resources as a key theme that we needed to ask our suppliers to address, starting in Stage IX. We reviewed the questions posed on our environmental survey forms in order to understand the status of activities and actual conditions of our suppliers, and identified the challenges we will face in expanding our activities in the future.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-32. 
As many businesses are connected in the global supply chain, conservation of water resources is a relevant issue for any company. The first step in working to conserve water resources is to comprehend exactly what water risks are associated with one’s own company. However, in our environmental survey, only about 20% of suppliers said that they were conducting water risk assessments. We received many responses from suppliers who are not conducting water risk assessments who said that conservation of water resources was not relevant to their companies—answering that they had “no water risks” or had “no need to conduct assessments” —as well as responses from companies that did not know how to assess water risks. In order to have suppliers think about conservation of water resources as an issue closer to home, we began offering the “Water risk assessment for companies” document, which compiles material on topics such as the importance of water risk assessments and introduces assessment tools that are publicly available. In the future, we will work to encourage even more suppliers to conduct water risk assessments and endeavor to conserve water resources.
 “Water risk assessment for companies” can be downloaded from the following sites.
 Japan: https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/procurement/material/green/index.html  Global: https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/procurement/green/ 

Contents of "Water Risk Assessment for Companies "
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-33. 
Environmental Action Plan Contributing to the Fulfillment of the SDGs through ICT Services. 
Our Approach. 
The Fujitsu Group touts “contributing to the fulfillment of the SDGs through ICT services” as one of the targets under the Fujitsu. 
Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX). In 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals (hereafter, the SDGs) were adopted by the United Nations. Taking the clear articulation of the SDGs as international goals as an opportunity, our objective is to contribute more than ever to the sustainability of our customers and society.
In order to make a sustainable society a reality, not only do we need to combat global warming by reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, we also need to address various social and environmental issues, such as conservation of resources, preservation of biodiversity, stabilization of food supplies, urbanization measures, and disaster prevention. Information and communication technology (ICT), which brings about improvements such as optimization, efficiency, and automation in a wide range of fields, has the potential to significantly contribute to solving societal and environmental problems. We aim to make contributions to the SDGs on a global scale, together with our customers, by offering our ICT services.
FY 2019 Performance. 
Targets under the Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX) FY 2019 Performance. 
Contributing to the fulfillment of SDGs through ICT services 55 items. 
Activities. 
In FY 2019, we carried out the following activities as measures to achieve our goals.
 Incorporated elements of the SDGs into various promotions and publicized them  Held SDGs seminars and conducted workshops across the company, as well as for target business units  Conducted workshops on business approaches with the SDGs as the starting point, etc.

Improvements are as follows.
1. Human resources measures (internal activities)  Number of lectures and workshops: 28  Shifted activities from “learning about the SDGs” to “raising awareness of the SDGs as a starting point for thinking about business” - Made conscious efforts to hold study sessions and lectures involving top-level personnel from the standpoint of increasing the ripple effects and effectiveness of these activities - In addition to holding lectures for promoting understanding of the SDGs, conducted workshops that would lead to the discovery of business opportunities. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-34 2. Business promotion measures (activities targeted towards outside parties)  Number of lectures and events: 27  Promoted our initiatives and supported customer communication by actively disseminating information - Disseminated information through media about how we perceive the SDGs, as well as our attitude and approach to the SDGs, in the FT&SV and the Integrated Report - Disseminated information about our initiatives by taking part in Fujitsu-sponsored events such as the Fujitsu. 
Forum, as well as the World Economic Forum, the WBCSD, and events sponsored by other organizations. 
Examples of Initiatives in FY 2019. 
Holding Workshops. 
As part of promoting businesses that address societal issues, Fujitsu develops programs that aim to help employees understand the linkages between the SDGs and the services and solutions they are engaged in. This encourages the employees to incorporate an awareness of the SDGs into their work as they devise proposals and undertake activities. Specifically, this involves attending workshops where logic models are used to represent the economic, environmental and societal impacts of business activities and to rationalize the selling points of services based on the factors required to achieve the SDGs. These activities help participants to fully embrace the ideas that underpin business ventures designed to address societal issues.
 
Workshop in progress. 
Disseminating Information Through Media and Events. 
Fujitsu disseminates information through various media and events, including those by other organizations.
For example, at the Sustainable Brands 2020 Yokohama event, Fujitsu employees took the stage to explain Fujitsu’s SDGs initiatives through talks based on the themes of “what companies need for sustainability” and “initiatives for preventing and mitigating disasters which use the latest in ICT.” 
 Sustainable Brands 2020 Yokohama ＊The following articles are special features from the Fujitsu Journal.
Japanese only:  For corporate implementation of the SDGs, it is essential to make societal issues into personal issues (Part 1) https://blog.global.fujitsu.com/jp/2020-04-08/01/ (Part 2) https://blog.global.fujitsu.com/jp/2020-04-08/02/ 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-3-35  What measures are needed for communities to raise awareness of disaster prevention and mitigation? (Part 1) https://blog.global.fujitsu.com/jp/2020-05-14/01/ (Part 2) https://blog.global.fujitsu.com/jp/2020-05-14/02/ 
 SDG-related Activities in Fujitsu ＊View other SDGs-related initiatives here.
https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/sdgs/
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-4-1. 
Environmental Data Global Warming Prevention. 
GHG Emissions Report Based on GHG Protocol Standards * Indicators assured by third party. 
Indicator FY2016 *1 FY2017 *2 FY2018 FY2019. 
Upstream (Scope 3) [ktons] 
Purchased goods and services 2,432 2,169 1,840 1,436*
Capital goods 31 13 6 9. 
Fuel and energy-related activities not included in. 
Scopes 1 and 2 76 72 71 133. 
Transportation and distribution (Upstream) 99 80 69 64. 
Waste generated in operations 8 7 5 N/A. 
Business travel 107 86 93 155. 
Employee commuting 87 69 68 52. 
Leased assets (Upstream) 373 288 281 115. 
Reporting company (Scope 1, 2) [ktons] 
Direct emissions (Scope1) 208 198 147 87*
Indirect emissions from energy sources (Scope2) 1,021 939 *3 912 *4 808 *3 771 *4 715 *3* 663 *4*
Downstream (Scope 3) [ktons] 
Transportation and distribution (Downstream) N/A*5 N/A N/A N/A. 
Processing of sold products 21 27 23 14. 
Use of sold products 4,566 3,460 3,649 3,791*
End-of-life treatment of sold products N/A N/A N/A N/A. 
Leased assets (Downstream) N/A N/A N/A N/A. 
Franchises N/A N/A N/A N/A. 
Investment N/A N/A N/A N/A *1 Estimate on not applicable and other items  Transportation and distribution (downstream): 5.4 ktons.
Amount of emissions accompanying movement when individual customers purchase personal computers etc.
 Other items: 311 tons.
Emissions due to movements of visitors to the exhibition.
*2 Estimate on not applicable and other items  Transportation and distribution (downstream): 6 ktons.
 Disposal of products sold: 1 ktons.
*3 Location-based *4 Market-based *5 N/A : Not Applicable. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-4-2. 
Environmental Data Material Balance. 
INPUT. 
Stage Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019. 
Development /
Design. 
Planning /
Design. 
Raw Materials. 
Metal ktons 25 16 15 19. 
Plastic ktons 11 9 7 7. 
Others ktons 15 13 12 13. 
Chemical Substances *1. 
VOC ktons 1.4 1.3 1.1 0.6. 
PRTR ktons 9.8 9.5 10.4 9.6. 
Water. 
Water usage Mm3 16.87 15.54 13.83 9.91*
Energy. 
Total PJ 20.38 19.25 17.35 16.30*
Purchased electricity GWh 1,899 1,800 1,614 1,477. 
Heavy oil, kerosene, etc. kL 10,118 10,100 6,822 3,570. 
LPG、LNG tons 3,059 2,954 2,222 2,115. 
Natural gas, city gas Mm3 29.99 29.76 28.01 28.93. 
District heating and cooling TJ 43 43 41 37. 
Distribution / Sales. 
Energy. 
Fuel (light oil, gasoline, etc.) PJ 1.46 1.18 1.02 0.95. 
Usage. 
Energy. 
Electricity GWh (PJ) 8,111 (80.87) 6,680 (66.60) 7,356 (73.34) 8,224 (81.99)
Collection / Reuse /
Recycling. 
Resources recycling rate % 92.0 91.5 91.7 91.1. 
Amount processed tons 4,185 3,844 3,436 3,210. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-4-3. 
OUTPUT. 
Stage Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019. 
Development /
Design. 
Planning /
Design. 
Raw Materials. 
CO2 emissions ktons-
CO2 640 520 410 450. 
Chemical Substances *1. 
VOC tons 245 228 178 161*
PRTR tons 11 10 9 8*
Atmospheric Release. 
Total GHG emissions ktons-
CO2 1,229 1,137 955 802*
CO2 ktons-
CO2 1,122 1,040 895 795*
GHG other than CO2 (PFCs, HFCs, SF6, others) ktons-
CO2 107 97 60 7*
NOx tons 104 63 32 47. 
SOx tons 30 11 4 1. 
Water Discharge 合計 Million m3 15.28 14.61 12.65 9.06. 
BOD tons 391 290 270 274. 
COD tons 179 94 55 35. 
Waste. 
Amount of Waste. 
Generated ktons 22.4 21.9 19.0 15.7*
Thermal recycling volume ktons 4.7 4.8 4.0 3.0*
Material recycling volume ktons 15.6 16.0 14.3 12.0*
Disposal volume ktons 2.1 1.1 0.7 0.6*
Distribution /
Sales. 
Atmospheric Release. 
CO2 ktons-
CO2 99 76 69 64. 
Usage. 
Atmospheric Release. 
CO2 Million tons-CO2 4.57 3.46 3.65 3.79* * Indicators assured by third party *1 Substances that qualify as both a PRTR targeted chemical and a VOC are included under "VOCs" only.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-4-4. 
Environmental Data Environmental Performance Data Calculation Standards  Applicable Period: April 1, 2019 – March 31, 2020. 
Fujitsu Group Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX)
Boundary : Refer to 5 -3 -3 in this Book. 
Target Item Indicator Unit Calculation Method. 
Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from business sites by 14% or more (compared to FY 2013), and reduce GHG emissions by 2.1% or more, year-on-year, through voluntary efforts.
GHG emissions Tons-
CO2  Amount of CO2 emissions: Σ [(Electricity, fuel oil, gas, and district heating and cooling annual usage) x CO2 conversion factor for each type of energy*] *CO2 conversion factor: Conversion factor for power, based on the Act on. 
Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures  Location-based:  Japan: Usage of 0.461 tons-CO2/MWh in FY 2019 (Source:
Basic emission factors from the Electric Power Council for a. 
Low Carbon Society)  Overseas: IEA EMISSION FACTORS 2019 DATABASE. 
DOCUMENTATION  Market-based:  Japan: FY 2018 emission factors for each power producer are used (adjusted emission factors (residue)) (Source: GHG. 
Emissions Accounting, Reporting, and Disclosure System List of Emission Factors by Power Producer)  Overseas: Value of the power company or the latest IEA value (by country)  Amount of non-CO2 GHG emissions:
Annual emissions of HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3 at two semiconductor plants (Mie Fujitsu Semiconductor Limited and. 
Aizu Fujitsu Semiconductor Wafer Solution Limited).
Σ[Annual emissions for each type of gas*1 x Global warming potential for each gas*2] *1 Based on the calculation method used by the appliances and electronics industries: Amount of each gas used (or purchased) x. 
Reactant consumption rate x Removal efficiency, etc.
*2 Global Warming Potential (GWP): IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on. 
Climate Change) Fourth Assessment Report “Climate Change 2007”
Rate of reduction of. 
GHG due to voluntary efforts % (Total amount of GHG reductions due to voluntary efforts / total amount of GHG emissions in the previous fiscal year) × 100. 
Improve PUE (Power. 
Usage Effectiveness) of our data centers (DC) by 2% or more compared to. 
FY 2017.
Rate of PUE improvements %  PUE = Σ (Total DC energy consumption) ÷ Σ (Total IT device energy consumption) Σ: Combined total energy of the 28 main DCs  Rate of improvement (%) = (Base fiscal year PUE - PUE for the current fiscal year) ÷ Base fiscal year PUE x 100. 
Base fiscal year: FY 2017. 
Increase renewable energy usage by 20% or more compared to FY 2017.
Rate of increase in the use of renewable energy %
The percentage of increase in the amount of power generated in- house or purchased from external sources using renewable energy (solar power, wind power, hydro power, biomass, geothermal, etc.) from FY 2017 (base fiscal year) to the relevant fiscal year. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-4-5. 
Promote eco design for resource saving and circulation and increase resource efficiency of newly developed products by 25% or more (compared to FY 2014).
Rate of improvement of resource efficiency of new products %
 The average rate of improvement of resource efficiency (versus. 
FY 2014) of products*.
* Hardware products under the Fujitsu Brand, newly developed between. 
FY 2016 and FY 2020. Excludes products not designed by Fujitsu (OEM products) and products designed under customer specifications.
* Refer to “Improving resource efficiency of products” for the resource efficiency calculation method.
Reduce amounts of waste generated by 5% or more of the average waste generated from FY 2012- 2014 (14,226 t/1 year).
Amount of waste generated Tons. 
Total amount of industrial waste and general waste generated at plants and business sites (Thermal recycling volume + Material recycling volume + Disposal volume)
Effective utilization rate (Japan only) % (Amount of effective use (thermal recycling & material recycling) /
Amount of waste generated) x 100. 
Maintain 90% or more resource reuse rate of business ICT products.
Resource reuse rate of business ICT products %
Based on the calculation method provided by JEITA, recycled components and resources as a percentage of the weight of used products processed in Japan. Excludes collected waste other than used electronic products. 
Reduce total water usage by 1% compared to. 
FY2017 (83,000 m3).
Amount of water usage reduction m3. 
Take the accumulated impact (actual or estimated) of water use reduction measures implemented at each business site, and calculate the amount of reduction for the relevant fiscal year. 
Limit the release of chemical pollutants (PRTR) to an amount below the average amount released from FY 2012- 2014 (17.4t/1 year).
Volume of PRTR- targeted substances released. 
Tons. 
Total emissions of substances subject to the PRTR Law (Act on. 
Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical. 
Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof) that are handled in quantities of 100 kg or more per year per substance at each business site, including overseas sites. 
Reduce CO2 emissions due to power consumption during product usage by 14% or more (compared to. 
FY 2013).
Rate of reduction in. 
CO2 emissions when products are used %
Rate of reduction in GHG emissions based on FY 2013 emissions, as calculated under Scope 3: Use of sold products through downstream. 
GHG Emissions Amount Report based on GHG Protocol Standards. 
Indicator Unit Calculation Method. 
Upstream (Scope 3)
Purchased goods and services tons. 
Components purchased during the fiscal year x Emissions per unit of purchase (Source: Embodied Energy and Emissions Intensity Data (3EID) published by the National. 
Institute for Environmental Studies Center for Global Environmental Research)
Capital goods tons Monetary value of capital x Emissions value per unit of capital value (Source: Same as above)
Fuel and energy– related items not included in Scopes 1 and 2 tons. 
Annual amounts of fuel oil and gas, electricity and heat purchased (consumed) mainly at business sites owned by Fujitsu x Emissions per unit (Source: Basic Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions Via Supply Chains and the Carbon Footprint Communication Program Basic Database Ver. 1.01 published by the. 
Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry)
Transportation and distribution (upstream) tons. 
Transportation of goods within Japan: CO2 emissions related to the transportation of goods within Japan by the Fujitsu Group * CO2 emissions related to domestic transportation by the Fujitsu Group, based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy as a source.
The fuel economy method (for some vehicles) or the improved ton-kilometer method (vehicle, rail, air)
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-4-6 tons. 
International transport/overseas local transport: transportation ton-kilometer x. 
Emission per unit (Source: GHG protocol emissions coefficient database)
Waste generated in operations tons. 
Annual amounts of waste (discharged mainly by business sites owned by Fujitsu) processed or recycled, by type and processing method x Emissions per unit of annual amount of waste processed or recycled (Source: Basic Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions Via Supply Chains published by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and. 
Industry)
Business travel tons (By means of transport) Σ(Transportation expense payment x Emissions per unit) (Source: Basic Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions Via Supply Chains Ver.
2.6 and Emissions per Unit Database Ver. 2.6 published by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry)
Employee commuting tons. 
For portions of commute by public transportation: (By means of transport) Σ(Transportation expense payment x Emissions per unit) (Source: Same as above)
For portions of commute by private automobile: Σ(Transported persons-kilometer x Emissions per unit) (Source: Same as above)
Transported persons-kilometer : calculated from transportation expense payment, price of gasoline, and fuel efficiency. 
Leased assets (Upstream) tons. 
Annual amounts of fuel oil, gas, electricity, and heat consumed mainly at leased business sites x Emissions per unit of fuel oil, gas, electricity, and heat consumed (Sources – Japan: Act on Promotion of Global Warning Countermeasures – GHG Emissions. 
Accounting, Reporting, and Disclosure System; Overseas: IEA CO2 Emissions from Fuel. 
Combustion Highlights 2018)
Reporting company (Scope 1, 2)
Direct emissions tons. 
Amount of CO2 emissions from the consumption of fuel oil and gas (burning of fuel) and GHG emissions other than CO2, mainly at business sites owned by Fujitsu * For the calculation method, see “Greenhouse gas emission (CO2 emissions, greenhouse gas emissions other than CO2) from business sites” in the Environmental Action Plan (Stage. 
IX)
Indirect emissions from energy sources tons. 
CO2 emissions from the consumption (purchase) of electricity and heat mainly at business sites owned by Fujitsu * For the calculation method, see “Greenhouse gas emission (CO2 emissions) at business sites” in the Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX).
Downstream (Scope 3)
Processing of sold products tons. 
Intermediate product sales volume*1 x Emissions per unit of processing volume*2 *1 Intermediate product sales volume refers to Fujitsu’s device solution sales *2 Emissions per unit of processing volume is calculated from Fujitsu’s FY 2015 assembly plant data. 
Use of sold products tons. 
Electricity consumption during product use x Emissions per unit electricity (Source: Emission factors FY 2018 performance by The Electric Power Council for. 
Low Carbon Society, general electricity transmission and distribution utilities) *Electricity consumption during product use is calculated as electricity usage for the anticipated usage time per product unit x Units shipped for the subject fiscal year. Electricity usage for the anticipated usage time per product unit is calculated as electricity consumed (kW) x Time used (h/ Days) x Number of days used / Year x Number of years used. Time used (h), number of days used per year, and number of years used are set according to. 
Fujitsu’s internal scenarios. 
End-of-life treatment of sold products tons (Weight of all sold products / Weight of products processed at Fujitsu’s recycling centers during the year) x Electricity used at Fujitsu’s recycling centers during the year x Emissions per unit of electricity (Source: Actual emission factor for each electricity utility based on ministerial ordinances on calculation and adjustment emission factor for each electricity utility based on reporting orders, announced for each fiscal year from FY 2011 to FY 2015)
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-4-7. 
Response to Environmental Risks: Environmental Liabilities. 
Indicator Unit Calculation Method. 
Cost of environmental liabilities. 
Yen 1. Asset retirement obligation (Only asbestos removal cost related to facility disposal) 2. Cost for soil contamination countermeasures 3. Disposal processing cost for waste with high concentration of PCB (polychlorinated biphenyl)
Response to Environmental Risks: Preventing Soil and Groundwater Pollution. 
Indicator Unit Calculation Method. 
Measured value of groundwater pollution mg/L. 
The highest value in the fiscal year for substances detected at levels exceeding regulated levels set in the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act, etc., at monitoring wells at the boundaries of sites where past business activities have resulted in soil contamination. 
Material Balance. 
Boundary : Refer to the “List of Organizations Covered by the Report on Environmental Activities” or 5-3-4-10 in this book.
Indicator Unit Calculation Method. 
INPUT. 
Design/
Procurement/
Manufacturing/
Development. 
Raw Materials tons. 
Material inputs to our major products*1 shipped in the fiscal year (raw materials per unit for each product x The number of units shipped in the fiscal year)
Chemical. 
Substances. 
Volume of substances subject to VOC emissions restrictions tons. 
Of the 20 VOCs (Volatile Organic Compounds) specified in the environmental voluntary action plans of the four electrical and electronic industry associations*2, total amounts handled are provided for those substances handled in quantities exceeding 100 kg annually per substance at individual business sites, including overseas sites. 
Substances subject to VOC emissions controls that are also covered by the PRTR law are included in the section on substances subject to VOC emissions controls. 
Volume of. 
PRTR-targeted substances tons. 
Of the substances covered by the PRTR law (Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the. 
Environmental and Promotion of Improvements to the. 
Management Thereof), totals are provided for those substances handled in quantities exceeding 100 kg annually per substance per business site, including overseas sites. 
Amount of water used m3. 
Annual use of clean water, industrial water and groundwater (not including groundwater used for melting snow or extracted for purification.)
Amount of Recycled water m3. 
Annual amount of water used for manufacturing and other purposes once, then recovered, processed, and used again for manufacturing and other processes.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-4-8. 
Energy consumption (calorie basis) GJ Σ[(Electricity, fuel oil and gas, and district heating and cooling annual usage) x Thermal conversion factor for each type of energy*] * Thermal conversion factor (Heating value unit): According to the “Act on the Rational Use, etc., of Energy,” conversion factors from each supplier or 44.8 GJ/1000m3 were used for town gas.

Purchased electricity MWh Annual electricity usage. 
Bunker A, fuel oil, light oil, benzine, gasoline kL Annual fuel oil usage (or purchases)
Natural gas m3 Annual natural gas usage (or purchases)
Town gas m3 Annual town gas usage (or purchases)
LPG tons Annual LPG usage (or purchases)
LNG tons Annual LNG usage (or purchases)
District heating and cooling. 
GJ Annual district heating and cooling (cold and hot water for cooling and heating) usage (or purchases)
Distribution /
Sales. 
Energy consumed for transport GJ. 
Total value of transport energy consumption for Fujitsu*1 and. 
Fujitsu Group companies*2 *1 Fujitsu (domestic transport): Energy consumption related to domestic transport by the Fujitsu Group, based on the Act on the Rational Use of. 
Energy “Logistics.” *2 Fujitsu Group Companies: Calculated from the transport CO2 emissions from OUTPUT (distribution and sales) using the ratio of Fujitsu (domestic transport) transport energy consumption to transport CO2 emissions.
Usage Energy Electricity. 
GWh Electricity consumed in connection with major products ** shipped during the fiscal year (Amount of electricity used for time estimated per product unit x Units shipped in the fiscal year) GJ. 
Recycling of resources. 
Resource recycling rate % Based on the calculation method provided by JEITA, recycled components and resources are calculated as a percentage of the weight of used products processed in Japan. Excludes collected waste other than used electronic products.
Processed volume tons. 
OUTPUT. 
Design/
Procurement/
Manufacturing/
Development. 
Raw. 
Materials CO2 emissions tons -CO2. 
CO2 emissions related to all stages from resource extraction through processing into raw materials (CO2 emissions equivalent for raw materials used per product unit x Units shipped in the fiscal year) for the raw materials used in major products*1 shipped in the fiscal year. 
Chemical. 
Substances. 
Volume of substances subject to VOC emissions restrictions tons. 
Of the 20 VOCs (Volatile Organic Compounds) specified in the environmental voluntary action plans of the four electrical and electronic industry associations*2, total amounts released are provided for those substances handled in quantities exceeding 100 kg annually per substance at individual business sites, including overseas sites.
Substances subject to VOC emissions controls that are also covered by the PRTR law are included in the section on substances subject to VOC emissions controls.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-4-9. 
Volume of. 
PRTR-targeted substances released tons. 
Of the substances covered by the PRTR law (Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the. 
Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the. 
Management Thereof), released totals are provided for those substances handled in quantities exceeding 100 kg annually per substance per business site, including overseas sites.
Atmospheric pollution. 
CO2 emissions tons-CO2 * For the calculation method, see “Greenhouse gas emissions (CO2 emissions) from business sites” in the Environmental Action. 
Plan (Stage IX).
GHG emissions other than CO2 tons * For the calculation method, see “Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG emissions other than CO2) from business sites” in the. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX).
NOx emissions tons NOx concentration (ppm) x 10-6 x Dry gas emissions (m3N/hr) x. 
Operating time (hr/yr) x 46/22.4 x 10-3. 
Sox emissions tons SOx concentration (ppm) x 10-6 x Dry gas emissions (m3N/hr) x. 
Operating time (hr/yr) x 64/22.4 x 10-3. 
Water. 
Discharge. 
Wastewater discharges m3. 
Annual water discharge into public waterways and sewers (not including groundwater used for melting snow, but including groundwater extracted for purification when the amount of water is known)
BOD emissions tons BOD concentration (mg/l) x Water discharges (m3/yr) x 10-6. 
COD emissions tons COD concentration (mg/l) x Water discharges (m3/yr) x 10-6. 
Waste. 
Amount of waste generated tons * For the calculation method, see “Waste generated” in the. 
Environmental Action Plan (Stage IX).
Thermal recycling volume tons. 
Among all types of waste put to effective use, the total volume used in thermal recycling * Thermal recycling: Recovery and use of the heat energy generated by incinerating waste. 
Material recycling volume tons. 
Among all types of waste put to effective use, the total volume used in material recycling * Material recycling: Processing of waste to facilitate its reuse, and re-use of processed waste as material or raw materials for new products. 
Disposal volume tons Volume of industrial and general waste processed by, for example, landfilling or simple incineration. 
Distribution /
Sales Atmospheric Release tons-CO2 * For the calculation method, see “Transportation and distribution (upstream)” in the GHG Emissions Report based on. 
GHG Protocol Standards.
Usage Atmospheric Release tons-CO2. 
Emission intensity per electricity has changed since FY 2017. For the calculation method, see “Use of sold products” in the GHG. 
Emissions Report based on GHG Protocol Standards.
 *1 Major products:
Personal computers, mobile phones, servers, workstations, storage systems, printers, scanners, financial terminals, retail terminals, routers,
LAN access equipment, access network products, mobile phone base stations and electronic devices *2 Four electrical and electronic industry associations:
The Japan Electrical Manufactures’ Association (JEMA), Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA),
Communications and Information Network Association of Japan (CIAJ), and Japan Business Machine and Information System Industries. 
Association (JBMIA).
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-4-10. 
Environmental Data List of Organizations Covered by the Report on Environmental Activities in FY2019. 
Organizations covered by the report. 
The coverage is of Fujitsu itself plus a total of 135 companies centering on consolidated subsidiaries that have built environmental management systems. The table below shows the organizations*1 for which individual performance data is gathered.
 *1 The following company names are as of March 31, 2020.
Organizations covered by each Indicators 
 Scope1,2,3 ：Organizations that are the subject of calculations used in the GHG Emissions Report based on GHG. 
Protocol Standards  Water ：Japan; Fujitsu and Fujitsu Group offices excluded datacenters.
Overseas; Fujitsu and Fujitsu Group manufacturing sites  Waste ：Japan; Fujitsu offices excluded datacenters and Fujitsu Group manufacturing sites. 
Overseas; Fujitsu and Fujitsu Group manufacturing sites  Chemical ：Fujitsu and Fujitsu Group manufacturing sites.
*The sites that handle less than 100 kg of chemical substances per year are excluded.
 EMS ：Organizations with Environmental Management Systems (EMS). Including organizations with voluntary EMS.

Headquarters. 
No. Company name Scope1,2,3 Water Waste Chemical EMS 1 Fujitsu Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 
Fujitsu Group companies in Japan (95companies)
No. Company name Scope1,2,3 Water Waste Chemical EMS 1 FUJITSU HOME & OFFICE SERVICES LIMITED ✔ ✔ 2 Kawasaki Frontale Limited ✔ ✔ 3 Fujitsu Travelance Ltd. ✔ ✔ 4 Fujitsu Techno Research Limited ✔ ✔ 5 Fujitsu CIT Limited ✔ ✔ 6 Toyama Fujitsu Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ 7 Fujitsu Facilities Limited ✔ ✔ 8 OKINAWA FUJITSU SYSTEMS ENGINEERING LIMITED ✔ ✔ 9 DIGITAL PROCESS LTD. ✔ ✔
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-4-11 10 PFU LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 11 FUJITSU BANKING SOLUTIONS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 12 SHIGA FUJITSU SOFTWARE LIMITED ✔ ✔ 13 FUJITSU BROAD SOLUTION & CONSULTING Inc. ✔ ✔ 14 FUJITSU SOCIAL SCIENCE LABORATORY LIMITED ✔ ✔ 15 FUJITSU YFC LIMITED ✔ ✔ 16 FUJITSU NIIGATA SYSTEMS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 17 FUJITSU HOKURIKU SYSTEMS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 18 FUJITSU KYUSHU SYSTEMS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 19 FUJITSU KAGOSHIMA INFORNET LIMITED ✔ ✔ 20 FUJITSU FIP CORPORATION ✔ ✔ 21 FUJITSU CLOUD TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED ✔ ✔ 22 G-Search Limited ✔ ✔ 23 FUJITSU FSAS INC. ✔ ✔ 24 FUJITSU COMMUNICATION SERVICES LIMITED ✔ ✔ 25 FUJITSU NETWORK SOLUTIONS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 26 Fujitsu Frontech Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 27 FUJITSU SYSTEM INTEGRATION LABORATORIES LIMITED ✔ ✔ 28 FUJITSU TOKKI SYSTEMS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 29 FUJITSU DEFENSE SYSTEMS ENGINEERING LIMITED ✔ ✔ 30 Fujitsu Applications, Ltd. ✔ ✔ 31 FUJITSU LEARNING MEDIA LIMITED ✔ ✔ 32 FUJITSU RESEARCH INSTITUTE ✔ ✔ 33 Fujitsu Marketing Limited ✔ ✔ 34 FUJITSU FOM LIMITED ✔ ✔ 35 FUJITSU CoWorCo LIMITED ✔ ✔ 36 TWO-ONE LIMITED ✔ ✔ 37 FUJITSU I-NETWORK SYSTEMS LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 38 ECOLITY SERVICE LIMITED ✔ ✔ 39 FUJITSU ADVANCED ENGINEERING LIMITED ✔ ✔ 40 Fujitsu Software Technologies Limited ✔ ✔ 41 FUJITSU MIDDLEWARE LIMITED ✔ ✔ 42 Fujitsu Kyushu Network Technologies Limited ✔ ✔ 43 Fujitsu Telecom Networks Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 44 FUJITSU COMPUTER TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED ✔ ✔
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-4-12 45 FUJITSU IT PRODUCTS LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 46 Fujitsu Isotec Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 47 FUJITSU PERIPHERALS LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 48 FUJITSU PERSONAL SYSTEM LIMITED ✔ ✔ 49 FUJITSU KASEI RECYCLE LIMITED ✔ ✔ 50 Fujitsu Interconnect Technologies Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 51 FUJITSU QUALITY LABORATORY LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ 52 Fujitsu Optical Components Limited ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 53 FUJITSU KANSAI-CHUBU NET-TECH LIMITED ✔ ✔ 54 Fujitsu Mission Critical Software LTD. ✔ ✔ 55 FDK CORPORATION ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 56 Transtron Inc. ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 57 SHINKO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES CO. LTD. ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 58 FUJITSU LABORATORIES LTD ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 59 FUJITSU SEMICONDUCTOR LIMITED ✔ ✔ 60 Fujitsu Design Limited ✔ ✔ 61 Fujitsu Advanced Technologies Limited ✔ ✔ 62 FUJITSU CAPITAL LIMITED ✔ ✔ 63 United Semiconductor Japan Co., Ltd.
(formerly MIE FUJITSU SEMICONDUCTOR LIMITED) ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 64 AIZU FUJITSU SEMICONDUCTOR LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 65 AIZU FUJITSU SEMICONDUCTOR WAFER SOLUTION LIMITED ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 66 Fujitsu IT Management Partner Co. Ltd. ✔ ✔ 67 Fujitsu IS Service Limited ✔ ✔ 68 Fujitsu Quality & Wisdom Limited ✔ ✔ 69 FUJITSU PUBLIC SOLUTIONS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 70 FUJITSU ADVANCED SYSTEMS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 71 Fujitsu Systems Applications & Support Limited ✔ ✔ 72 FUJITSU YAMAGUCHI INFORMATION CO.,LTD ✔ ✔ ✔ 73 FUJITSU SHIKOKU INFOTEC LIMITED ✔ ✔ 74 FUJITSU SYSTEMS WEB TECHNOLOGY LIMITED ✔ ✔ 75 FUJITSU NETWORK SERVICE ENGINEERING LIMITED ✔ ✔ 76 FUJITSU SOCIAL LIFE SYSTEMS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 77 Mobile Techno Corp. ✔ ✔ 78 Care Net Ltd. ✔ ✔
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-4-13 79 Fujitsu Advance Accounting service Limited ✔ ✔ 80 Fujitsu Harmony Limited ✔ ✔ 81 UCOT Infotechno co., Ltd ✔ ✔ 82 AB System Solutions Limited ✔ ✔ 83 ZIS INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION ✔ ✔ 84 Fujitsu Yamagata Information Technology Limited. ✔ ✔ 85 BANKING CHANNEL SOLUTIONS Limited ✔ ✔ 86 IT MANAGEMENT PARTNERS LIMITED ✔ ✔ 87 YJK Solutions Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ 88 Best Life Promotion Ltd. ✔ ✔ 89 Fujitsu Traffic & Road Data Service Limited ✔ ✔ 90 Future City Solutions Limited ✔ ✔ 91 TechShop Japan Limited ✔ ✔ 92 Fujitsu Engineering Technologies Limited ✔ ✔ 93 Smart Agriculture IWATA Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ 94 Grand Bouquet Otaki, K.K. ✔ ✔ 95 FITEC ✔ ✔ 
Fujitsu Group companies worldwide (39 companies)
No. Company name Scope1,2,3 Water Waste Chemical EMS 1 Jiangsu Fujitsu Telecommunications Technology Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 2 Fujitsu Electronics Pacific Asia Limited ✔ ✔ 3 Fujitsu Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ 4 FUJITSU HONG KONG LIMITED ✔ ✔ 5 FUJITSU DO BRASIL LIMITADA ✔ ✔ 6 FUJITSU ASIA PTE LTD ✔ ✔ 7 FUJITSU NETWORK COMMUNICATIONS INC. ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 8 Fujitsu America, Inc. ✔ ✔ 9 Fujitsu (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ 10 FUJITSU BUSINESS TECHNOLOGIES ASIA PACIFIC LIMITED ✔ ✔ 11 FUJITSU AUSTRALIA LTD. ✔ ✔ 12 Fujitsu Technology Solutions GmbH ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 13 Fujitsu Electronics Europe GmbH ✔ 14 Fujitsu Nanda Software Technology Co., Ltd ✔ ✔ 15 FUJITSU SERVICES HOLDINGS PLC ✔ ✔
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-3-4-14 16 FUJITSU KOREA LTD. ✔ ✔ 17 FUJITSU TAIWAN LIMITED ✔ ✔ 18 Fujitsu Telecommunication Asia Sdn. Bhd. ✔ ✔ 19 Fujitsu (China) Holdings Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ 20 Fujitsu Technology and Business of America, Inc. ✔ ✔ 21 FUJITSU (XI'AN) SYSTEM ENGINEERING Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ 22 Beijing Fujitsu System Engineering Co., LTD. ✔ ✔ 23 Fujitsu Glovia, Inc. ✔ ✔ 24 FUJITSU AUSTRALIA SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY PTY. LTD. ✔ ✔ 25 FUJITSU Enabling Software Technology GmbH ✔ ✔ 26 Fujitsu Electronics America, Inc ✔ 27 Fujitsu Electronics Korea Ltd. ✔ 28 Fujitsu Research and Development Center Co., LTD. ✔ ✔ 29 Fujitsu Computer Products of America ✔ ✔ 30 Fujitsu Consulting India ✔ 31 FUJITSU (CHINA) Co., Ltd. ✔ ✔ 32 Fujitsu Finance America, Inc. ✔ ✔ 33 FUJITSU EMEA PLC ✔ ✔ 34 Fujitsu RunMyProcess SAS ✔ ✔ 35 UShareSoft, SAS ✔ ✔ 36 Fujitsu Greenhouse Technology Finland Oy ✔ ✔ 37 Fujitsu Systems Global Solutions Management Sdn. Bhd. ✔ ✔ 38 Fujitsu Sweden AB ✔ 39 Fujitsu New Zealand Limited ✔ 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-4. 

 

 


Global Responsible Business 
- Compliance - 

The Fujitsu Group recognizes the operation and maintenance of internal control system including compliance is one of the most important management issues, from the perspective of maintaining and improving corporate value. Therefore, we will ensure to keep entire organizations informed about the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct.
Furthermore, in all our business activities, we shall be aware of and act with integrity on a higher level of corporate ethics respecting international and local standards.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-4-1. 
Compliance. 
Goal. 
WHAT FUJITSU ASPIRES TO BE. 
The Fujitsu Group, from the perspective of maintaining and improving corporate value, recognizes that the installation and operation of an internal control structure, which includes compliance, is one of the most important aspects of management.
The Fujitsu Group will disseminate the Fujitsu Way throughout the entire organization. Furthermore, the Fujitsu Group will be aware of a higher level of corporate ethics, which includes social norms in that scope, and act with integrity in all of its business activities.
GOALS FOR FY2022. 
To further disseminate compliance related part of the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct throughout the entire organization, the. 
Global Compliance program is rolled out for the entire Fujitsu Group, thereby instilling a high level of compliance awareness in the organization, and the management is to take the lead in fostering a corporate culture where each employee does not tolerate any wrongdoing (Zero Tolerance).
KPI: Deliver messages from the President or the Heads of each Business Group/Region on the importance of compliance (at least once a year)
Policies and Structure for Implementation. 
At the Fujitsu Group, the Risk Management & Compliance Committee, which is operated under the direct control of the Board of. 
Directors and headed by the President, is responsible for overseeing Group-wide compliance at the global level based on the. 
Policy on the Internal Control System(*1). Together with appointing a Chief Risk Management & Compliance Officer (CRCO) who is tasked with carrying out the Committee's compliance-related policies and decisions, the Committee established the Global. 
Compliance Program. In cooperation with Region Risk Management & Compliance Committees, which have been established as subcommittees in each region, the Committee strives to raise Group-wide awareness of the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct and achieve compliance with that Code.
The Risk Management & Compliance Committee and the Region Risk Management and Compliance Committees regularly verify the current operational status of the Global Compliance Program and file reports with the Board of Directors. Under the initiative and supervision of top management, these Committees implement and operate the internal company rules, training activities, and monitoring systems necessary for compliance with the laws and regulations that concerns the business activities of the. 
Fujitsu Group.
 *1 “The Policy on the Internal Control System” https://www.fujitsu.com/global/Images/notice120b.pdf (P.2-P.7)
The Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct. 
The Fujitsu Way contains a Code of Conduct, the fundamental principles that all Fujitsu Group employees should abide by, shown on the right.
Fujitsu has also refined the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct, developed. 
Global Business Standards (GBS) (*2) in 20 languages to serve as a guide on legally compliant behavior for all Fujitsu Group-affiliated employees around the world, and applies GBS uniformly across the. 
Fujitsu Group.

Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-4-2 *2 Global Business Standards https://www.fujitsu.com/global/Images/notice120b.pdf (P.2-P.7)
Top Management Initiatives. 
Top Management proactively and continuously expresses its intentions to strive for compliance through their measures such as transmitting messages to employees, and in doing so, Fujitsu puts the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct and GBS into practice, and make them widespread across the entire Fujitsu Group.
The President himself has repeatedly sent out messages to all employees, both in Japan and overseas, to declare that Fujitsu will put an end to compliance violations, including collusion and forming cartels. Even overseas, regional heads and Group company top managers continuously send messages that explain the importance of compliance and corporate culture that has zero tolerance for wrongdoing.
Furthermore, Fujitsu established the Fujitsu Compliance Week in accordance with International Anti-Corruption Day on December 9th, which is designated by the United Nations, and engages in measures like sending out simultaneous messages across the. 
Fujitsu Group to encourage employees to think once again about compliance and to promote the discussion.
Global Compliance Program. 
Fujitsu has formulated the Fujitsu Global Compliance Program (GCP) in order to implement and disseminate the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct and GBS, and is working to maintain and improve the global legal compliance structure across the entire Fujitsu. 
Group. The GCP systematically organizes our various compliance-related activities into five pillars. While clarifying what items. 
Fujitsu needs to address on a continual basis, the GCP also promotes external understanding of Fujitsu’s compliance structure and its compliance activities. Based on this GCP, we take factors such as the legal systems of each country/region and the guidelines of their government institutions into account, and implement various policies and initiatives in each region.
When implementing the GCP, we establish internal Group rules and deploy an officer responsible for compliance activities to each region to secure the implementation structure. We also continuously provide employees with various forms of training, and aim to embed the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct and GBS. In addition, we have established an internal whistleblower system(*3) in case of compliance issues, and in the event that compliance violations are discovered, employees are required to immediately report them to the Risk Management & Compliance section. We periodically verify the effectiveness of the GCP through measures such as risk assessment, audit, and reviews by external specialists, and continuously work towards improve the GCP.
  About the promotion of the Global Compliance Program https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/compliance/Promoting_the_Global_Compliance_Program.pdf. 

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-4-3 *3 Internal Whistleblower System. 
The Fujitsu Group has established a point of contact inside and outside the company, operated as the Compliance Line/Fujitsu Alert, to receive reports from all Group employees (including retirees, temporary transfers, contracted employees, part-time employees and dispatch workers) and offer consultations (including anonymous reports).

We have established a Compliance Line and Fujitsu Alert for Suppliers in Japan to receive reports from the suppliers of Fujitsu and domestic. 
Group companies, to whom we directly supply products, services, software and other goods. Fujitsu Alert is also available overseas in 20 languages, and accepts reports from customers, suppliers and other third parties 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
  Fujitsu Alert https://secure.ethicspoint.eu/domain/media/en/gui/102834/index.html  Compliance Line for Suppliers in Japan https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/csr/management/compliance/complianceline/
Initiatives for Security Export Controls. 
The export of goods and the transfer of technology that could be used for the development or production of weapons of mass destruction or conventional weaponry is controlled by an international framework for security export controls, with the objective of maintaining global peace and security. In Japan, regulations for security export controls are implemented under the Foreign. 
Exchange and Foreign Trade Act (the Foreign Exchange Act).
In line with the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct’s stipulation that employees should comply with all laws and regulations, Fujitsu has enacted “Internal Compliance Program” on Security Export Control Regulations whose fundamental objective is the promotion of security export controls that are not only in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Act, but with the Export Administration. 
Regulations (EAR) of the United States, which are applied extraterritorially.
Fujitsu has established a system in which the President serves as the designated Chief Security Export Control Officer, while the. 
Security Export Control Office in the Legal, IP and Internal Control Unit serves as the organization that promotes security export control activities. The Security Export Control Office carries out all classification and transaction screening (verifying the country/region receiving the goods/technology, the intended application for it, and the identity of the client) for export of goods and the transfer of technology to overseas locations, where all necessary licenses are adequately obtained before shipment. In addition, in the “Internal Compliance Program” such process is established that legal violations shall be reported immediately.
When conducting business, in order to prevent legal violations by misinterpretation of and/or overlook of related regulations, we coordinate closely with the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, which has jurisdiction over export administration regulations.
In order to maintain this internal system for security export controls and keep it going, we continue to conduct regular audits and provide export controls training to all executives and employees.
With regard to all domestic and overseas Group companies, Fujitsu headquarters offer guidance about how to develop rules and establish frameworks for proper security export controls, provides educational support and audit support, and organizes gatherings within the Group for the purpose of information exchange, among other activities. In addition, since FY 2013, Fujitsu has been developing an e-Learning course that covers security export controls and is available in 20 languages for Group companies around the world.
System to Ensure Proper Financial Reporting. 
In the Policy on the Internal Control System, which was resolved by the Board of Directors, Fujitsu stipulates the following points.
 1. The Company has, apart from the organization that prepares financial reports, an organization under the Chief Financial. 
Officer responsible for establishing, operating, and evaluating internal control over Fujitsu Group financial reporting, to ensure the effectiveness and reliability of financial reports.
2. These organizations create unified accounting policies shared throughout the Fujitsu Group and rules for establishing, operating, and evaluating internal control over financial reporting.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-4-4. 
Status of operations: 
Under the direction of the Risk Management & Compliance Committee, the organization responsible for internal control and internal audits has established a system called “Eagle Innovation.” In accordance with the rules established by the Company based on the principles of the Practice Standards for Management Assessment and Audit concerning Internal Control Over. 
Financial Reporting published by the Business Accounting Council, internal control over financial reporting throughout the. 
Fujitsu Group is assessed. The activity statuses and assessment results are reported to the Chief Financial Officer and the Risk. 
Management & Compliance Committee.
Our Approach to Tax Matters. 
Tax compliance at Fujitsu is carried out according to the Fujitsu Way Code of Conduct.
  We understand the purpose and spirit of each country’s tax laws and treaties, as well as other guidelines such as those laid out in the BEPS (Business Erosion and Profit Shifting) Project led by the OECD, and abide by them. We strive to file tax returns and pay taxes appropriately.
 We strive to respect the general rule of an arm’s length price in transactions between related companies. We will thereby not engage in profit shifting to countries where we do not conduct business activities—countries which are tax havens or have low tax rates—in an intentional attempt to avoid taxation.

We will act in good faith in our relationships with tax authorities, and behave in an ethical and transparent manner, in accordance with the values that are cherished by the Fujitsu Way.
Based on the above, we aim to achieve proper tax management, in order to continuously improve corporate value.
FY 2019 Accomplishments. 
Compliance Training 
 Compliance e-Learning for all officers and employees at Fujitsu Group (Conducted in 20 languages for approximately 130,000 people)  Other e-Learnings and face-to-face trainings for different regions, companies, positions and/or functions (For example, trainings conducted for newly appointed executives, managers and oversea assignees, newly hired employees or sales employees)
Security Export Controls 
 Regular internal audits: 30 divisions within Fujitsu  Seminars for employees responsible for export controls at Group companies: 61 domestic Group companies  Audits, training and structural enhancement and support: 26 domestic Group companies and 7 overseas Group companies. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-5. 

 

 


Global Responsible Business 
- Supply Chain - 

The Fujitsu Group sets “Co-existence with Suppliers”, “Fair and Proper Evaluation and Selection of Suppliers” and “Promotion of. 
CSR-Conscious Procurement Activities” as the procurement guidelines for its global procurement activities, and will accomplish a. 
CSR risk-free procurement to fulfill our corporate social responsibility.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-5-1. 
Supply Chain. 
Goal. 
WHAT FUJITSU ASPIRES TO BE. 
In its supply chain, the Fujitsu Group will achieve responsible procurement that embraces diversity and gives full consideration to human rights, the environment and health & safety.
GOALS FOR FY2022  The Fujitsu Group will achieve responsible procurement in its supply chain.
To ensure that its major suppliers comply with the international standards for responsible procurement, the Fujitsu Group will obtain one of the following documents from its major manufacturing subcontractors and parts suppliers for its core products. (Target KPI =100%)
KPI： ・A platinum or gold level of site recognition under the RBA Audit Recognition program ・Written consent with the Fujitsu Group CSR Procurement Guideline (equivalent to the RBA Code of Conduct)  Promotion of supply chain diversity.
We set supply chain diversity as our goal of Responsible Business and promote it globally.
Policy. 
The Fujitsu Group holds “Co-existence with Suppliers”, “Fair and Proper Evaluation and Selection of Suppliers” and “Promotion of. 
CSR-Conscious Procurement Activities” as the tenets of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) procurement policy, and conducts its global procurement activities accordingly.
In 2005, we formulated the "CSR Procurement Guideline” for CSR procurement and requested our suppliers in Japan and overseas to comply with that guideline. In 2018, we adopted the RBA (*1) Code of Conduct as the "Fujitsu Group CSR Procurement. 
Guideline".
 *1 【PRESS RELEASE】Fujitsu Joins EICC, a Global Corporate Social Responsibility Coalition (renamed as the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) in October 2017) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/resources/news/press-releases/2017/0329-01.html 
 Fujitsu Group Procurement Policy https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/procurement/policy/ 
 Fujitsu Group CSR Procurement Guideline (RBA Code of Conduct) https://www.responsiblebusiness.org/code-of-conduct/
Structures for Promoting CSR Procurement & Periodic Reviews. 
Under the group-wide policy, the relevant departments in the Fujitsu Group collaborate regarding the promotion of CSR activities.
In the area of procurement, the Global Supply Chain Unit works with the relevant departments in promoting socially responsible procurement activities by suppliers. The CSR promotion activities are targeted at our major suppliers, that is, the largest suppliers on a monetary basis and those who have ongoing dealings with Fujitsu.
We initially clarify the compliance items through its CSR Procurement Guideline and then require our suppliers to undertake CSR activities. To confirm that these CSR activities are being fully implemented by suppliers, they are asked to respond to a range of surveys on topics such as green procurement, information security and Business Continuity Management (BCM).
The survey responses are analyzed and the results are returned to the suppliers as feedback. Where a supplier fails to meet. 
Fujitsu’s standards, they undertake to make improvements. Where there is a particular need to check whether CSR activities are. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-5-2 being fully implemented by a supplier, a CSR audit is conducted. Such suppliers are required to submit a remediation plan for any matters identified by the audit and Fujitsu works with the suppliers to make the necessary improvements. Fujitsu is continually improving its processes and promoting CSR procurement with the goal that ultimately CSR activities will be properly undertaken by suppliers and will become firmly entrenched.

Promoting Activities and Participation in Industry-standard Initiatives (RBA Membership) 
The Fujitsu Group is a member of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), a global CSR alliance. As such, we give serious consideration to the RBA’s Code of Conduct and engage in socially responsible procurement with our suppliers and throughout our supply chain.
The Fujitsu Group also takes an active role in the programs and initiatives of organizations such as the Japan Electronics and. 
Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) and works to promote socially responsible procurement in the industry.
Addressing High-Risk Minerals. 
The policy of the Fujitsu Group is to exclude from its products, components and supply chain any minerals that give rise to conflicts (“conflict minerals”), or minerals that are at high risk of being associated with forced labor or human rights violations.
(The Fujitsu Group identifies tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten and cobalt as high-risk minerals.) Fujitsu has also established a structure to ensure the transparency of procurement activities in the supply chain and the responsible procurement of minerals.
This structure includes the relevant internal departments and operates under the jurisdiction of the Sustainability Management. 
Committee (chaired by Fujitsu’s President).
  Fujitsu Group Policy on Responsible Minerals Procurement https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/procurement/Fujitsu_Group_Policy_on_Responsible_Minerals_Sourcing_ v01.pdf. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-5-3. 
Surveys on High-Risk Minerals. 
As part of its due diligence, the Fujitsu Group conducts high-risk minerals surveys with reference to the “OECD Due Diligence. 
Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas”. These surveys use the Conflict. 
Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) and Cobalt Reporting Template (CRT) developed by the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI).
  List of smelters checked in the surveys https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/documents/about/csr/procurement/Smelter%20and%20Refiner%20List_2020.pdf. 
Reminders are sent to those suppliers who failed to respond to our survey by the due date. If survey responses reveal insufficient answers, suppliers are asked to resubmit their responses. Where customers indicate that a smelter is considered to be “risky”, we ask suppliers using that smelter to re-examine the nature of their dealings with the smelter.
While there have been no confirmed reports yet of smelters having any involvement with armed groups, we will continue to conduct programs aimed at identifying smelters and further increasing transparency in our supply chain.
Promoting Green Procurement. 
The Fujitsu Group has set out its basic approach to the environmentally sound procurement of components, materials and products in the Fujitsu Group Green Procurement Direction, and we are working with our suppliers to promote green procurement activities. One target for such activities is the reduction of CO2 emissions, and the Fujitsu Group is requesting that all of its suppliers, and their suppliers in turn, reduce their CO2 emissions. In addition, we are asking our suppliers to conduct water risk assessments as a first step toward water resource conservation. We will continue to promote activities that reduce environmental impacts throughout our supply chain.
  Fujitsu Group Green Procurement https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/procurement/green/
Promoting Information Security Measures. 
Based on the “Cybersecurity Management Guidelines” issued in December 2015 by Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and. 
Industry (METI) and the Information-technology Promotion Agency (IPA), the Fujitsu Group, along with its suppliers, has adopted. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-5-4 the goal of “eliminating information security incidents”, and is continually implementing measures to prevent such incidents or recurrences. These measures include education, raising awareness, auditing and sharing information.
In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the commercial use of external services such as cloud computing and social media. There has also been a rapid increase in opportunities for the use of smart devices such as smartphones and tablet. 
PCs. It is necessary to prevent not only incorrectly addressed emails being sent by mistake and the theft or loss of PCs and smart devices, but also new kinds of risks involving information leaks such as in-house crimes and cyber terrorism. In this context, when the Fujitsu Group consigns work to suppliers, including offshore development work entrusted to overseas suppliers, it promotes education and awareness by requiring the same standards of information security management and handling of personal information as it applies to its own operations. If any serious problem regarding information security is discovered at a supplier, or if the supplier fails to immediately implement corrective measures and no improvement is observed, Fujitsu will take steps such as reviewing its business relationship with the supplier.
Enhancing Supply Chain BCM. 
The Fujitsu Group sees the enhancement of Business Continuity Management (BCM) throughout its supply chain as essential to ensuring a stable supply of products and services in the event of major disasters or other unexpected contingencies. Accordingly, since FY2007 we have provided our suppliers with ongoing support to improve their BCM capabilities.
Fujitsu conducts an annual questionnaire-based survey of its suppliers on how they address BCM. This survey also covers some group companies that conduct their own procurement. We analyze the responses to the survey and then provide feedback to the suppliers and group companies. Since FY2014, we have been using a standard survey form developed by JEITA’s Materials. 
Committee.
Fujitsu also conducts annual surveys of major solutions-related suppliers, analyzing the responses and providing feedback.
Communication with Suppliers. 
Business Meetings. 
Under the Suppliers' Performance Review (SPR(*2)) system, the Fujitsu Group holds management-level business meetings targeting around 70 of its major suppliers. These meetings provide both direct feedback on the assessment results in an interactive format as well as explanations of Fujitsu’s business outlook and procurement strategy. The feedback provided at these meetings also addresses CSR topics, and suppliers whose efforts do not meet Fujitsu’s standards are asked to make improvements. Fujitsu also carries out assessments of solutions-related suppliers and provides the results of those assessments as feedback to the major suppliers.
 *2 Suppliers’ Performance Review: A program developed by Fujitsu that assesses the performance of procured goods and the basic profile of enterprises in terms of quality, technology, price, supply and CSR.
Fujitsu Suppliers’ Reception. 
The Fujitsu Group has been holding receptions for its suppliers since 1997. These events provide an opportunity for Fujitsu’s. 
President to give an overview of the Fujitsu Group’s business activities and for the Vice President responsible for purchasing to explain Fujitsu’s purchasing strategy. These gatherings are also used to present certificates of appreciation to suppliers who have made exceptional contributions to our business and to further strengthen our partnerships with suppliers.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-5-5. 
Strengthening Procurement Compliance. 
Education by Procurement Divisions. 
The procurement divisions of the Fujitsu Group conduct annual education and training programs for their suppliers to thoroughly disseminate awareness of CSR and to ensure that procurement is socially responsible. In FY2019, in addition to CSR procurement and green procurement, training aimed at increasing awareness among procurement staff was also offered in the areas of risk management (BCM activities) and compliance with legislation such as the Subcontracting Law and the Worker Dispatching. 
Business Law.
Supplier Compliance Line. 
The Fujitsu Group uses the Supplier Compliance Line as a channel to receive reports from suppliers regarding any actions that are potential or actual instances of non-compliance in our purchasing activities. Channels have been set up both internally and externally through which we can verify and investigate the facts of each report and respond quickly.
Fujitsu’s internal reporting standards prohibit any adverse treatment of its own staff making such reports or of staff from suppliers making the reports.
Our agreements with suppliers also include explicit provisions on the elimination of anti-social forces and other such groups with the aim of preventing harmful actions by such anti-social forces (and avoiding any encouragement of their activities). The Fujitsu. 
Group, including its suppliers, will have no relationship whatsoever with anti-social forces.
  Supplier Compliance Line in Japan https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/csr/management/compliance/complianceline/
FY2019 Performance. 
CSR Surveys & Audits 
 CSR surveys of major suppliers in Japan and overseas: 107 companies* * Indicator assured by third party  Responses revealed that more than 90% of all major suppliers are actively undertaking CSR activities.
 CSR audits of suppliers: Three companies  While no major violations were found, the audits confirmed the existence of items requiring remediation in some minor areas, such as employment that exceeded legal overtime hours, deficient equipment installation and insufficient management of waste product facilities.
 The suppliers concerned were requested to provide remediation plans and to implement the remediation measures; these matters will be pursued until remediation is completed.
High-Risk Mineral Survey Results 
 In the FY2019 survey, Fujitsu received responses from 67% of the suppliers surveyed.
 Smelters operated by 321 companies were checked, of which 239 were compliant with the RMI-certified Responsible. 
Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP).
Promoting Information Security Measures 
 Information security briefings (class-based and Web-based; Nov. 2019): Approximately 300 participants – excluding participants in Web-based briefings. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-5-6  Web surveys on the state of information security measures (Aug. 2019-Mar. 2020): Approximately 1,400 companies  Audits on the state of information security measures (self-administered) (Sep. 2019-Mar. 2020): 275 companies * Repeated status surveys, education and auditing of suppliers are fundamental to the maintenance of trouble-free operations.
Enhancing Supply Chain BCM. 
Products:  Surveys conducted (May-Sep. 2019): Approximately 840 companies / 2,200 locations  Feedback provided (Oct. 2019): Approximately 840 companies / 2,200 locations. 
Solutions:  Assessment feedback provided: Approximately 270 companies. 
Communication with Suppliers. 
Products:  Business meetings held: 27  Feedback provided (Oct. 2019): Approximately 840 companies / 2,200 locations. 
Solutions:  Assessment feedback provided: Approximately 270 companies. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-6. 

 

 


Global Responsible Business 
- Health and Safety - 

According to our corporate policy "to ensure a safe and comfortable working environment", the Fujitsu Group gives the first priority in all business activities to protect the health and safety of our employees both in mind and body, by providing a healthy and safe work environment tailored to the different cultures in which we operate.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-6-1. 
Occupational Health and Safety. 
Goal. 
WHAT FUJITSU ASPIRES TO BE. 
The Fujitsu Group's first priority in all business activities is to protect the health and safety of our employees both in mind and body by providing a safe and healthy work environment tailored to the different cultures in which we operate.
 We will foster a culture that does not tolerate accidents, incidents and poor safety performance.
 We will ensure safety is a core business value, and make safety important and personal in order to influence people’s decisions and behavior  We will completely eliminate the loss of business opportunities due to preventable illnesses, injuries, and unexpected work-related accidents. 
GOALS FOR FY2022. 
The Fujitsu Group will maintain a safe and comfortable working environment, and promote employees’ mental and physical health in every workplace.
KPIs : ・Zero occurrences of serious accidents ・Implementing health and safety-related management reviews at the global level, conducted once a year. 
Policy. 
The Fujitsu Group has established a Health and Safety Policy, and we promote group-wide efforts to set up safe, pleasant working environments and create a workplace culture that will ensure the health and safety of our employees.

Fujitsu Group’s Health and Safety Policy. 
Ensuring the health and safety of Fujitsu's employees is one of the most important management topics, and it is given the highest priority in all of Fujitsu's business activities.
Promotion Framework and Regular Reviews. 
The Fujitsu Group has established a Central Health and Safety Committee to coordinate the activities of the health and safety committees at individual business sites. The Central Health and Safety Committee is comprised of the executives in charge of the. 
Human Resources Unit and Health Promotion Unit, and representatives and others from the Labor Union. It meets once per year to share information and report to management and those in charge at each location about the confirmed status of disasters that have occurred at business sites, and about preventative measures, while also formulating Group-wide health and safety related policies.
The health and safety management organizations at individual business sites hold monthly Health and Safety Committee meetings. These committees establish policies suited to the unique characteristics of each site and work to create healthier, safer workplaces in accordance with policies related to the Occupational Health and Safety Management System. These health and safety management organizations also survey the worksites to check and improve anything that is potentially dangerous or could lead to occupational accidents, and they conduct risk assessments. Some business sites have obtained OHSAS 18001 international health and safety standard certification. In addition, we are currently building a structure at the global level to promote health and safety.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-6-2. 
Efforts to Improve Occupational Health and Safety. 
The Fujitsu Group works toward health and safety with the goal of having zero occupational accidents. Our efforts to boost awareness for the prevention of occupational accidents include health and safety training at each division, and encouraging exercise habits that help prevent falls. Starting in FY 2014 we have also been conducting voluntary inspections and getting third- party verifications from specialists to reduce the risk of accidents at manufacturing sites.
Occupational Health and Safety Training. 
Fujitsu and our group companies provide health and safety training, as well as health education that raises health awareness.
Training is also conducted on-site for the particular work environments present at each individual business site.
Infectious Disease Countermeasures. 
In response to the novel coronavirus, we have thoroughly adopted a working style based on working from home, so that our employees around the world can work safely and with peace of mind. We have also switched from face-to-face meetings to online meetings and conference calls, and as a general rule, we have banned overseas business trips and long-distance business trips within Japan. In addition, we have developed and disseminated guidelines for working from home, and taken measures to review our internal operations and fulfill our social responsibilities, so that we can carry out operations smoothly, regardless of environment.
On the other hand, in order to exercise consideration for employees so that they will not experience issues from a physical and mental health perspective due to the increase in remote work, and to respond to those employees and their families who are having difficulty working due to the closure of places like schools, day care centers and kindergartens, and nursing care facilities, we have newly established the following special leave as a temporary measure.
  Special leave: All employees receive 10 days of special leave (100% fully paid), which is separate from their annual and accumulated leave  Family support leave: Employees who are having difficulty working due to their need to support children who are elementary school age or younger, or family members who require long-term care, will receive family support leave (at 80% of their wages) in addition to special leave. 
As office environments, we are implementing measures such as appropriately controlling the percentage of employees in the office, having seat layouts which take social distancing into account, making alcohol-based disinfectant available, and managing. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-6-3 records of where people sit in non-fixed seating, in order to provide workplace environments where employees can work safely and with peace of mind.
We have also set up a consultation service for infectious disease countermeasures, and disseminated information to our employees on how to prevent and combat the spread of infectious diseases to our employees.
Overseas Health and Safety Efforts. 
The Occupational Health and Safety Groups in each region are moving forward with comprehensive region-driven approaches to promote thorough awareness of occupational health and safety compliance and preventive measures, in accordance with the laws of each country.
In the EMEIA region, we have focused on collecting and utilizing data on the occurrence of occupational accidents to promote the prevention of occupational accidents since FY 2018. In FY 2019, we established an incident management system across the. 
EMEIA region.
The EMEIA region sets specific medium- to long-term objectives that include specific measures such as these, and works diligently to foster a culture that is not permissive of occupational accidents, while also strengthening governance, establishing management systems, and developing human resources and skills.
In the future, in order to make improvements so that our occupational health and safety activities will be globally unified, we intend to set up a Global Occupational Health and Safety Committee that will drive these activities forward. As a precursor to those efforts, we have endorsed the themes of the World Day for Safety and Health at Work, which is organized by the. 
International Labor Organization (ILO), and are moving forward with widespread global awareness campaigns for employees that relate to their occupational health and safety.
FY 2019 Results. 
Occupational Accident Occurrences (Fujitsu and group companies in Japan) 
Fujitsu and domestic group companies provide health and safety training and health education in order to raise health awareness. We also provide training at each of our offices that is tailored to the workplace environment.
 * Indicator assured by third party. 
Group Companies with OHSAS 18001 Certification. 
PFU Techno Wise Limited. 
Fujitsu Australia Limited *
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-6-4. 
ISO45001-Certified Group Companies. 
FDK Corporation (Takasaki Plant, Tottori Plant)
Fujitsu Services Ltd. 
Fujitsu Technology Solutions SA. 
Details of Education and Training Efforts. 
Health and Safety training for new employees (approximately 1,600 employees/year) (Fujitsu and group companies in Japan)  Learning basic knowledge for preventing occupational accidents, and fundamental tips for managing personal health. 
Health and Safety training for business sites (approximately 3,300 employees/year) (Fujitsu and group companies in Japan)  Traffic safety training: Seminars that include case examples, aimed at preventing traffic accidents  Safety training for laboratories: Learning about laws and regulations pertaining to laboratories, points to note when conducting experiments, and how to manage chemicals. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-7. 

 

 


Global Responsible Business 
- Community - 

The Fujitsu Group will build collaborative partnerships to engage and empower communities. We will contribute to the prosperity of the communities in which we work globally through collaboration with our business activities, and encourage our employees to develop their skills, have confidence, and be proud to work for Fujitsu through giving back to society.


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 5-7-1-1. 
Total Amount of Investments for Social Contribution Activities. 
The following chart describes the investments for social contribution activities at Fujitsu in FY 2019.
Employee Volunteer Activity Support System. 
The Fujitsu Group has in place a volunteer activity support system to encourage each employee's active contribution to society.
Additionally, we have also developed various programs customized to the characteristics of each region in order to support better local communities in each area where we have a business site.
Fujitsu has set up a leave of absence system for employees to participate in the Japan Overseas Cooperation Volunteers or the. 
Senior Japan Overseas Cooperation Volunteers (for up to three years), as well as a system that allots five vacation days a year for volunteer activities, which can be accumulated for a maximum of 20 vacation days. In FY 2019, 112 employees took their accumulated vacation days (220 days in total) to conduct volunteer activities.
Community Activities. 
Goal. 
WHAT FUJITSU ASPIRES TO BE. 
Our employees, who possess an awareness that they belong to a global society, will have a positive impact not just on society, but on the economy and on business, by increasing their empathy for social issues and engaging in the co-creation of activities.
We will evaluate, analyze and communicate the impact that our employees have made, and offer greater value to society.
GOALS FOR FY2022. 
Contributing to the transformation of both our corporate culture and mindset of employees. 
KPI : Rate of increase in the number of employees participating in social contribution activities related to social issues ; KP. 
Our Approach to Community Activities 10% increase compared to fiscal 2019 under the new normal. 
The Fujitsu Group has cooperated with regional communities—who are important stakeholders for us—to pursue unique activities in each region in Japan and around the world. From now on, in order to achieve our purpose which was newly established in 2020, we will promote our activities in Japan and overseas in a more integrated manner, and take the trust we have built in regions up to this point and elevate it to a global level. In order to solve the challenges facing society, we will create greater value by focusing on areas where we can maximize our business strengths. Furthermore, we will continue to create significant value by developing and enhancing systems for quantitatively assessing the impact of our activities in Japan and overseas, and by implementing a cycle to review and improve our activities.
FY 2019 Results. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-7-2-1. 
Activities delivering social value. 
Contributing to Local Communities through Sports. 
The Fujitsu Group have held a variety of events at its five plants and offices in Japan for local residents, employees and their families as part of its community contribution activities.
Under the program, Fujitsu employees participate in hands-on sports events for "health promotion" and "Improving children's athletic ability".
In the upcoming year, to build momentum for the Tokyo 2020. 
Olympic and Paralympic Games, the Group hosted events with. 
Olympians affiliated with Fujitsu, and parasport workshops, inviting para-athlete teams from around respective regions.
In addition to sponsoring the Tokyo 2020 Games, Fujitsu is sponsoring Japanese Para-sports Association, Japan Para Athletics, and Japanese Para-swimming Federation, thus contributing to further the understanding of para sports and the increase of participation.
Support for watching sports through barrier-free maps. 
At the Rugby World Cup 2019 in Japan, Fujitsu distributed a "barrier-free" map that visualized the route and potential barriers in the city to enable people with mobility disabilities and elderly people to travel easily to the stadiums.
As one of the organizers of the All Japan Business Committee for Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 (*1), Fujitsu created this barrier-free map in collaboration with local communities, business circles, local governments, and students in order to support a society where everyone can live comfortably. A total of 200,000 copies were distributed to all 12 stadiums, as well as to major transportation facilities such as Narita Airport, contributing to the accessibility of a tournament that can be enjoyed by everyone.
Fujitsu will continue these activities at the venues of the upcoming Tokyo 2020 Games to foster the momentum for the Games, helping to create a society in which everyone can live in harmony.
 *1 The All Japan Business Committee for Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 : This committee was established by the three economic organizations (Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business Federation), The Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and Keizai Doyukai (Japan. 
Association of Corporate Executives)) as a parent organization to foster momentum for the Tokyo 2020 Games and create legacies in the business world.
 
Scene of the field survey Barrier-free map Scene of the distribution. 

Para-sport workshop. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-7-2-2. 
Preservation of Indigenous Knowledge and Culture (Australia) 
Fujitsu Australia supports Bawurra Foundation which works with many Indigenous communities and Elders to preserve Aboriginal and. 
Torres Strait Islander knowledge and culture. This includes digitally preserving artefacts such as maps, photos, letters and news clippings.
In 2019, Fujitsu provided the foundation for this digital initiative, with our ScanSnap technology, hosted in our cloud. Fujitsu ScanSnap allows volunteers and community members to scan multiple items at once at very high quality, preserving these as part of the Bawurra. 
Digital library. The library has reached over 1,300 students in 12 remote communities within Australia. The success of the Bawurra. 
Foundation project encourages active learning to share knowledge of. 
First Nations’ cultural values, practices and philosophies.
Social contribution activities related to the environment. 
The Fujitsu Group has set out our Purpose to make the world more sustainable by building trust in society through innovation.
For this purpose, each employee works to make a positive impact on society through our businesses and life.
  Activities in Japan https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/activities/japan/  Overseas Activities https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/activities/global/
Support for Damage from Natural Disasters. 
The Fujitsu Group is carrying out donation and contribution campaigns in order to assist with efforts to recover from the damage caused by natural disasters. For examples of overseas cases where we donated and contributed to support natural disaster recovery, please see below (cases in Japan are covered on our Japanese website).
  FY2019  Fujitsu donated food, and hygienic materials for the affected families of the fires that occurred in the Philippines where 1,000 families were effected.
 FY2018  Fujitsu responded to Hurricane Florence which caused extensive damage in the southern part of the U.S, by raising money to donate to the Red Cross.
 Fujitsu fundraised and matched employee donations for the devastating California wildfires. Fujitsu worked with. 
Australia Post to quickly restore essential services after flooding in Townsville, Queensland. More information is available here.
https://blog.global.fujitsu.com/oceania/2019-04-08/australia-post-and-fujitsu-team-together-to-keep-the- community-safe/  FY2017  Fujitsu promoted initiatives to collect and deliver goods for firefighters combatting the Wildfires in Portugal  Fujitsu donated food and personal care products as relief for Costa Rica's Hurricane.
 FY2016  Fujitsu fundraised and matched employee contributions in support of Italy earthquake victims.
Scanning process for the digital library. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-7-2-3  See here for the Great East Japan earthquake disaster recovery and reconstruction support activities.
(Only in Japanese) https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/csr/recovery/
Contributing to Society through Sports. 
The Fujitsu Group promotes sports as a building block of a strong society. Company sports encompass the track and field team, the Frontiers American football team, and the Red Wave women's basketball team. These organizations share the thrill of sports while building a more prosperous society and contributing to promoting the mental and physical health of people.
We also cosponsor sports and promote initiatives to promote barrier-free minds through sports.
  See here for our sponsorship and contributions to sports. (Only in Japanese) https://sports-topics.jp.fujitsu.com/activity/  See here for the barrier-free activities of the mind through sports. (Only in Japanese) https://sports-topics.jp.fujitsu.com/accessibility/
Donation Activities. 
Activities that Contribute to Society by Group Employees (Japan) 
Employees of Fujitsu Group companies voluntarily participate in everyday social contribution activities, such as collecting used stamps, prepaid cards, books, and CDs and donating the proceeds to polio vaccine or seedling planting projects.
Employees participate in the "sutenai seikatsu", or waste free lifestyle, activities. "Sutenai seikatsu" activities are intended to support Shapla Neer (Citizen's Committee in Japan for Overseas Support), an international NGO engaged in volunteer activities, by donating the sales of used books and DVDs collected from employees.
Cultural and Sponsorship Activities. 
Fujitsu Group donated to Okinawa prefecture in Japan for the restoration of Shurijo Castle, the world heritage site which was ravaged by fire, in October 2019.
  Link in Japanese https://pr.fujitsu.com/jp/news/2019/11/5-2.html 
 See here for other cases of Fujitsu's cultural and sponsorship activities. (Only in Japanese) https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/resources/advertising/event/
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-7-3-1. 
Activities utilizing ICT. 
Support for Mathematical Olympiad and Olympiad in Informatics. 
Fujitsu supports the Mathematical Olympiad Foundation of Japan and the Japanese Committee for the International Olympiad in. 
Informatics (the latter being a non-profit organization) to help discover and foster valuable human resources who will play leading roles in the future development of society. The Mathematical. 
Olympiad Foundation of Japan was established in 1991 in order to discover gifted mathematicians for selection and entry as national representatives in the International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO) and to further develop their skills. The foundation is also committed to helping improve and promote education in mathematics from an international perspective. Fujitsu provided the basic funds for the establishment of the Foundation along with two other companies and one individual.
Meanwhile, the Japanese Committee for the International Olympiad in Informatics was established in 2005 to train human resources in support of Japan's mathematics and information science sector. It provides support for participants of the. 
International Olympiad in Informatics (IOI), a programming contest for junior and senior high school students. As a supporting member, Fujitsu provides assistance in the committee's operation.
Wabi Sabi project (Poland) 
Fujitsu’s Global Delivery Center in Poland works on the project “Wabi. 
Sabi”, whose purpose is to engage students to look for smart and innovative ways to address significant sustainability concerns both locally and globally. The project brings together experienced IT architects and designers within Fujitsu, alongside young IT students from universities. Through a joint study process, from day-long hackathons to semester-long programs, they develop proof-of- concept applications as their results.
In addition, the employees in Poland set up a team with the objective to encourage their children to do something positive for the community, environment and their own wellbeing, while developing a positive volunteering attitude. Their activities mainly focus on educational events, including a hardware class to learn how computers work, an Internet Safety workshop, and “Soroban” (Japanese traditional abacus) classes to improve their math’s skills.
Support for social participation by a smartphone app (UK) 
Fujitsu UK have been collaborating with Nottingham Trent University (NTU), to help improve the wellbeing and safety of customers, employees and students. Together they have designed and built an app for smartphone, Buddy Connect. This app aims to make workplace autism inclusive. The development team brainstormed the mapping, framing, designing and prototyping of a simple and intuitive technology solution to help people with autism. The app was made to assist with the. 
The 18th International Olympiad in Informatics awards ceremony. 
Participants of the program. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-7-3-2 planning and managing of the issues which autism may present in the workplace, providing easy access to information that will help them, and connect them with additional support if they need it. Through this activity, Fujitsu is working on the realization of a fully inclusive workplace.
Fujitsu-JAIMS Foundation. 
The Fujitsu JAIMS is a non-profit educational foundation that provides graduate level education. Its predecessor organization, the "JAIMS" was established in Hawaii in 1972 with the objective of fostering human resources that would serve as bridges between Japan and the. 
United States. Since its establishment, it has produced about 23,000 graduates from 55 countries. 
In 2012, to strengthen ties with Asia, we established the Fujitsu. 
JAIMS Foundation in Japan, and will fulfill its mission of contributing to creating a future full of richness and vision through training personnel capable of creating new value for society (innovation) in the Asia-Pacific region.
Fujitsu has contributed working capital and has an organization within the company that has been supporting Fujitsu-JAIMS' activities. In addition to comprehensive support of the Foundation, Fujitsu has been coordinating with Fujitsu-JAIMS by incorporating its own practical wisdom, ICT, and expertise into the Foundation's activities. Fujitsu has thus been pushing forward with its social contribution activities, furthering promotion of academic and educational fields as well as international exchange.
  See here for Fujitsu-JAIMES Foundation https://jaims.jp/en/
Fujitsu Scholarship Program. 
Fujitsu established the Fujitsu Scholarship Program in 1985. The aim was to foster business leaders who, through their deep understanding of Japan's culture, society, and business methods, will connect Japan with the rest of the world. 571 people have received scholarships as of April 1, 2020.
It now provides opportunities to participate in the Fujitsu-JAIMS. 
Foundation's program for business people in 18 countries and areas in the Asia-Pacific region.
Fujitsu is working with Fujitsu Group companies doing business in the. 
Asia-Pacific region to provide scholarships to people considering helping their country or community, and contribute to society by providing education rooted in local communities worldwide, aimed at developing business leaders and promoting cultural exchange and mutual understanding.
  See here for Fujitsu Scholarship.
https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/activities/community/scholarship/
Participants. 
Fujitsu Scholarship Recipients. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-7-4-1. 
Collaboration with External Parties. 
These days, as the various challenges facing society and the environment have grown in number, the idea that companies have a responsibility to all of their stakeholders—not just to their customers and investors, but to their employees, suppliers, and communities of all sizes—is becoming more common internationally.
Fujitsu supports this idea, and is working towards the realization of a sustainable society, acting in conjunction with international organizations and a variety of like-minded companies.
Involvement With the World Business Council for Sustainable. 
Development (WBCSD) 
The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) is an organization headed by the CEOs of around 200 global corporations that aims to make sustainable communities a reality through business activities. The WBCSD advocates for economic system reforms concerning six topics: people, circular economy, redefining value, cities and mobility, food and nature, and climate and energy. Fujitsu has been involved with the WBCSD since 2013, and has continued to conduct activities that relate to several of these themes. Since 2018, the Chairman has served as a. 
WBCSD Executive Committee member.
Fujitsu participated in the following activities in 2019, and has worked together with participating companies from various industries to discuss solutions to a variety of social issues.
  People: Together with like-minded companies, we signed the CEO Guide to Human Rights, and made a call for companies to respect human rights in all of their corporate activities.
 Cities and mobility: We participated in a working group for leveraging ICT knowledge to solve urban transportation challenges.
 Vision 2050: We are working on revisions to Vision 2050, the long-term vision which forms the core of WBCSD activities. This project discusses the systemic reforms and changes necessary to achieve a sustainable society by 2050, and the role that companies have to play in order to make it possible.
WBCSD Round Table. 
In November 2019, WBCSD CEO Peter Bakker came to Japan for a round table meeting aimed at Japanese member companies. Mr.
Bakker said that 2020 to 2030 would be a decade in which practical action would be required in order to bring about a sustainable society, and he expressed his hope that the private sector would be proactive in this regard. The participating companies shared the understanding that sustainability initiatives are not limited to the activities of individual companies, but also require collaboration with other companies and across industries. They agreed that the private sector should take the lead in solving social problems in order to continue sustainable development.
 WBCSD http://www.wbcsd.org/
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
5-7-4-2. 
Involvement with the WEF. 
The World Economic Forum (WEF) is a not-for-profit foundation established by economist Klaus Schwab that engages in programs to improve the state of the world through cooperation between the public and private sectors in a spirit of global citizenship. It offers a venue for close collaboration among leaders from a diverse range of major international institutions as well as from the business world, government, academia and society, with the aim of shaping global, regional and industry-based agendas.
In January each year, the WEF holds its annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland. The Davos meetings bring together in one venue more than 3,000 leaders in their fields from around the world, including company executives, political leaders, intellectuals, and journalists, to discuss the major problems confronting the world. Fujitsu has participated in the forum since 2001 and is involved in a broad range of activities, with top management participating in the annual meeting and division heads participating in subcommittees, among others.
President Tokita and Vice-President Furuta participated in the 2020 annual meeting, where the theme was “Stakeholders for a. 
Cohesive and Sustainable World.” Together with top corporate management and experts, they engaged in lively discussions about global challenges such as “balancing the creation of new businesses through digital technology with trustworthiness in data distribution” and “making changes towards a sustainable market which is in harmony with the environment and society.”
Based on these discussions, we will continue to make contributions to solving social issues in the future.
  World Economic Forum https://www.weforum.org/
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6. 

 

Governance


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-1-1. 
Corporate Governance. 
Basic Approach to Corporate Governance. 
Through a decision by the Board of Directors in December 2015, Fujitsu formulated a basic policy that sets out its approach to corporate governance (the "Corporate Governance Policy"). This Policy has been deliberated and established to best fit the present company conditions. However, considering the objective of corporate governance—that is, to conduct a better management—the company is working to continuously review the Policy so that it does not become too rigid or lose substance, as well as holding periodic discussions on the Policy in the Board of Directors Meeting to maintain the best corporate governance structure.

The company recognizes that corporate governance is an indispensable mechanism to manage the company under our Purpose (from the Fujitsu Way). This is not merely to pursue short-term profits, but to ensure the trust of customers and business partners, to encourage employees to engage in activities vibrantly and proudly, and to contribute to society. For these reasons, the company designed a governance structure based on the following approach.
  Basic Approach https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/governance/approach-e/pdf/approach_e.pdf. 
The latest version, revised in June 2020, can be downloaded from the URL below.
  Corporate Governance Policy https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/ir/library/governance/governancereport-b-en.pdf. 
Corporate Governance Structure (as of June 22, 2020) 
In accordance with its Corporate Governance Policy, the company outlines the following rules to ensure effective oversight and advice, given from the diverse perspectives of Non-Executive Directors (hereinafter, the term used for a combination of. 
Independent Directors and Non-Executive Directors appointed from within the company), to Executive Directors on their business execution as part of the Board of Directors function while taking advantage of the company through the Audit & Supervisory. 
Board system.
 <Board of Directors>
The Company has a Board of Directors to serve as a body for making important decisions and overseeing management. The. 
Board of Directors mainly acts in an oversight and advisory role and delegates the decision-making authority over business execution to the Representative Directors and subordinate Corporate Executive Officers to the broadest extent that is permitted by law and the Articles of Incorporation of the company and is considered to be reasonable. Moreover, the oversight function of the Board of Directors has been strengthened by actively appointing External Directors with a high degree of independence and diverse perspectives. Furthermore, in order to better define the management responsibility of the Directors, their terms were reduced from two years to one year in accordance with a resolution at the June 23, 2006 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting.
As of June 22, 2020, the Board of Directors consists of nine members in total, comprising three Executive Directors and six Non-
Executive Directors (including five External Directors).
The Company held 13 meetings of the Board of Directors in FY2019 (including one extraordinary Board of Directors meeting) to discuss the formulation of the Management Direction and measures for its implementation as well as to decide a new management system based on reports from the Executive Nomination Committee.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-1-2 <Audit & Supervisory Board>
The Company has an Audit & Supervisory Board that performs the auditing and oversight functions. The auditing and oversight functions are carried out by Audit & Supervisory Board Members, who review the Board of Directors as well as business execution functions and attend important meetings, including meetings of the Board of Directors. As of June 22, 2020, the Audit &
Supervisory Board has four members, comprising two full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Members and two External Audit &
Supervisory Board Members. The Audit & Supervisory Board held nine meetings in FY2019, focusing primarily on reviewing the audit policy and audit plan, the audit methods used by the accounting auditor, and the appropriateness of the results. They also listened to reports from the internal auditing departments and reported key matters from the full-time Audit & Supervisory Board members to the External Audit & Supervisory Board members.
 <Independent Directors & Auditors Council>
As an initiative aimed at enhancing "positive governance" that will help to boost its medium- and long-term profitability, the. 
Company has established an Independent Directors & Auditors Council, made up entirely of independent officers (five. 
Independent Directors and two Independent Auditors).
To stimulate discussions by the Board of Directors on the Company's medium- and long-term orientation, it is considered essential that there be an ongoing mechanism by which independent officers, who are necessarily distanced from the actual workings of the business, are able to more closely understand the Company's business. This Council is designed to enable the independent officers to exchange information and share views in the process of forming their opinions.
In FY2019, the Independent Directors and Auditors Council met eight times to exchange views based on the sharing of information and opinions with independent directors, addressing issues that included management policy, human resource development and the scope of business of the Company and the Fujitsu Group.
 <Executive Nomination Committee & Compensation Committee>
The Company has established the Executive Nomination Committee and the Compensation Committee as advisory bodies for its. 
Board of Directors to ensure the transparency and objectivity of its process for nominating Directors and Audit & Supervisory. 
Board Members and its process for determining executive compensation as well as to ensure the fairness of the method and the level of executive compensation.
The Executive Nomination Committee deliberates on candidates for Director and Audit & Supervisory Board Member positions in accordance with the Framework of Corporate Governance Structure and the Procedures and Policy for nomination/dismissal of. 
Directors and Auditors stipulated in the Company’s Corporate Governance Policy and provides its recommendations to the Board of Directors. In addition, the Compensation Committee provides its recommendations about the level of base compensation and the method for calculating performance-based compensation to the Board of Directors in accordance with the Procedures and. 
Policy for Determining Directors and Auditors Compensation stipulated in the Company’s Corporate Governance Policy.
Conditional upon the approval of the Compensation Committee, the CEO determines the performance targets and the individual amounts for the base compensation and performance-based stock compensation for each Director.

The members of each committee appointed in July 2020 are as follows, and consist of three Independent Directors. Additionally, the secretariats of both committees are operated by the Company’s HR and legal departments.
  Executive Nomination Committee. 
Chairperson: Jun Yokota (Independent Director)
Members: Chiaki Mukai, Yoshiko Kojo (Independent Directors) 
 Compensation Committee. 
Chairperson: Chiaki Mukai (Independent Director)
Members: Jun Yokota, Yoshiko Kojo (Independent Directors) 
In July 2019, following the appointment of members to the two committees, the Executive Nomination Committee met twice to discuss the election of Representative Directors (including the CEO) and the nomination of candidates for Director, etc. The. 
Compensation Committee met three times to discuss compensation for Directors and Auditors, bonuses, etc. Both committees provided recommendations to the Board of Directors.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-1-3  Corporate Governance Report. 
Matters on Functions such as Business Execution, Auditing, Oversight, Nomination and Compensation Decisions (Overview of Current Corporate Governance System) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/ir/library/governance/governancereport-en.pdf. 
The chart below provides an overview of the Company's corporate governance structure. (As of June 22, 2020) 
Reasons for Adoption of Current Corporate Governance System. 
We believe that both direct oversight of business execution by Non-Executive Directors and oversight by Audit & Supervisory. 
Board Members who remain distant from the decision making and operation of business execution should work jointly to ensure highly effective oversight performance. The company has adopted the "company with Audit & Supervisory Board” model where an Audit & Supervisory Board, composed of the Audit & Supervisory Board Members, is established and appointed as an independent agent.

The Board of Directors is composed of at least as many Non-Executive Directors as Executive Directors to ensure its capacity to correct faulty, insufficient, or excessive business executions. While External Directors should be the core of Non-Executive. 
Directors on account of their high degree of independence, at least one Non-Executive Director is appointed from within the company to complement the External Directors’ knowledge in business fields and the corporate culture of the company so that the efficiency of oversight performance by the Non-Executive Directors is enhanced.
Policy for Determining Executive Compensation. 
Compensation paid to Directors and members of the Audit & Supervisory Board is determined based on the Executive. 
Compensation Policy established by the Board of Directors, subject to approval by the Compensation Committee.
  Executive Compensation Policy (A-18) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/ir/library/reports/Report120.pdf. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-1-4. 
Basic Approach to the Internal Control System. 
To continuously increase the corporate value of the Fujitsu Group, it is necessary to pursue management efficiency and control risks arising from business activities. Recognizing this, the Board of Directors have formulated the "Policy on the Internal Control. 
System", which provides guidelines on: a) how to practice and promote the Fujitsu Way, the principles that underlie the Fujitsu. 
Group’s conduct; and b) what systems and rules are used to pursue management efficiency and control the risks arising from the. 
Company’s business activities.
See below for the full text of the Policy on the Internal Control System and an overview of the operating status of the systems tasked with ensuring appropriate business practices 
 Internet releases of selected business reports and financial documents https://www.fujitsu.com/global/Images/notice120b.pdf. 
Disclosures Relating to Corporate Governance. 
Board of Directors (as of June 22, 2020)
Name Position and Responsibilities Representation. 
Authority. 
Independent. 
Officer. 
Business executed. 
Takahito Tokita CEO, CDXO, Chairman of the Risk. 
Management & Compliance Committee ○
Hidenori Furuta COO, CTO ○
Takeshi Isobe Corporate Executive Officer, SEVP, CFO. 
Non-executive. 
Masami. 
Yamamoto Senior Advisor. 
Jun Yokota ○
Chiaki Mukai ○
Atsushi Abe Chairman of the Board of Directors ○
Yoshiko Kojo ○
Scott Callon ○ 
FY2019 Attendance at Meetings of the Board of Directors or Audit & Supervisory Board. 
Meeting Times Present Attendance Rate. 
Board of Directors 13 100%
Audit & Supervisory Board 9 97.8% * Of the five members of the Audit & Supervisory Board in FY2019, four attended every meeting, with only Koji Hatsukawa missing one of the nine meetings.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-2-1. 
Risk Management. 
Risk Management Guidelines. 
Through its global activities in the information technology sector, the Fujitsu Group continually seeks to increase its corporate value and to contribute to all stakeholders, particularly its customers and regional communities. Management places a high priority on properly assessing and dealing with any risks that threaten the achievement of our objectives. These include preventing the occurrence of these risk events, minimizing the impact of any such events that do occur and preventing recurrence. We have also built a risk management & compliance structure for the entire group and we are committed to its ongoing implementation and improvement.
Risk Management & Compliance Structure. 

To prevent potential risks of business-related loss from transforming into actual risks, and to respond appropriately to and prevent the recurrence of any risks, the Fujitsu Group has established a Risk Management & Compliance Committee. This committee is under the direct control of the Board of Directors and acts as the highest-level decision-making body on matters involving risk management and compliance.
The committee also assigns Risk Management Compliance Officers to each of Fujitsu’s divisions and to group companies in Japan and overseas. In April 2016, we established Regional Risk Management & Compliance Committees. These organizations collaborate to build a risk management & compliance structure for the entire Fujitsu Group, thereby guarding against potential risks and mitigating risks that have already materialized.
The Risk Management & Compliance Committee is responsible for monitoring the progress of risk management and compliance in all Fujitsu business divisions and group companies in Japan and other countries. This committee is tasked with establishing the appropriate policies and processes, as well as implementing and continually improving them. In practical terms, it determines the risk management regulations and guidelines, then applies them and reviews them on an ongoing basis.
Risk Management Reviews. 
The Risk Management & Compliance Committee, identifies, analyzes and assesses the key risks associated with business activities in all Fujitsu business divisions and group companies in Japan and other countries. (Among the group companies,
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-2-2 implementation is focused on 33 risks identified as particularly important.) It also checks the progress of measures designed to avoid, mitigate, transfer and accept such risks, and then formulates new measures or reviews existing measures. The committee reports regularly to the Board of Directors regarding major risks that have been identified, analyzed and assessed, presenting the risks in a visually accessible format by ranking and mapping them.
The committee also prepares processes for dealing with risks that have eventuated despite implementation of the various preventive measures. If a critical risk arises, such as a natural disaster, product fault or defect, system or service problem, compliance violation, information security breach or environmental problem, then the department or group company concerned reports immediately to the Risk Management & Compliance Committee.
This committee then coordinates with the related departments and work sites to quickly resolve the problem by taking appropriate steps, such as establishing a task force. At the same time, the committee works to identify the causes of the problem and proposes and implements measures to prevent any recurrence. For critical risks, the committee also reports as needed to the. 
Board of Directors. The Risk Management & Compliance Committee checks the progress of implementation of these processes on an ongoing basis and formulates improvements.

Business Risks. 
The Fujitsu Group identifies, analyzes and assesses the risks associated with business activities and works on measures to avoid or mitigate their impact and to deal promptly with any issues that do occur.

Major Business Risks (*1)  Economic and financial market trends  Customers  Competitors and the industry  Investment decisions and business restructuring  Suppliers, alliances, etc.
 Public regulations, public policy, and tax matters  Natural disasters and unforeseen incidents  Finance  Deficiencies or flaws in products and services  Compliance issues  Intellectual property  Security  Human resources  Fujitsu Group facilities and systems  Environment. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-2-3 *1 These are just some examples of the risks associated with doing business. More detailed risk-related information can be found in our securities and other reports.
https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/ir/policy/risks/ https://pr.fujitsu.com/jp/ir/secreports/ (Japanese only)
Please refer to the web page below for detailed risk information in accordance with our Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) declaration. “Response to Environmental Risks” https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/environment/risk/
Risk Management Education. 
To enforce risk management across the entire Fujitsu Group, we conduct education and training at every level.
These programs are targeted at newly appointed executives and managers, as well as Risk Management Compliance Officers, to educate them on our basic approach to risk management and our rules for promptly escalating issues to the Risk Management &
Compliance Committee. The programs present specific instances of problems with products, services, and information security, with the aim of continually improving participants’ awareness of risk management and enhancing their capacity to respond to risks.
Refer to the “FY2019 Performance” section at the end of this document for information on education outcomes for FY2019.
Group-Wide Disaster Management. 
The basic policy of Fujitsu and its group companies in Japan is to ensure the safety of staff and facilities when disasters occur, to minimize harm and to prevent secondary disasters. We also aim to ensure that business operations resume quickly, and that we can assist in disaster recovery for our customers and suppliers. To this end, we are building robust collaborative structures in our internal organizations and strengthening our business continuity capabilities.

In particular, we are working to build “area-based disaster management systems” that enable the Group offices in each region to cooperate effectively and to promote responses via the management structures in each business unit and group company.
To verify the efficacy of our disaster management systems and enhance our response capabilities, we conduct drills tailored to every level, from the entire company through to task forces, workplaces and even individuals. We also implement voluntary inspections and verification activities to prevent accidents and minimize the level of harm in each of our facilities. These efforts enable us to accurately identify existing issues, review and implement measures to address those issues, and work toward continually improving our capacity to prepare for disasters and sustain our business operations.
For more information on our Group-wide disaster management, joint disaster response drills and verification activities, refer to the PDF listed below in the activity outcomes for FY2019 in the “FY2019 Performance” section at the end of this document.
  Group-wide disaster management, joint disaster response drills, verification activities https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/riskmanagement/Group_Wide_Disaster_Management_20190628v1.pdf. 
Business Continuity Management. 
Recent years have seen a significant increase in the risk of unforeseen events that threaten continued economic and social activity. Such events include earthquakes, floods and other large-scale natural disasters, disruptive incidents or accidents, and pandemics involving infectious diseases. To ensure that the Fujitsu and its group companies in Japan can continue to provide a stable supply of products and services offering the high levels of performance and quality that customers require, even when such unforeseen circumstances occur, we have formulated a Business Continuity Plan (BCP). We are also promoting Business. 
Continuity Management (BCM) as a way of continually reviewing and improving our BCP.
Since January 2020, COVID-19 has spread throughout the world with devastating consequences. To maintain the safety of its. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-2-4 customers, suppliers and employees, the Fujitsu Group has placed the highest priority on preventing the spread of the infection.
It is also promoting initiatives to sustain the supply of products and services to customers and to help resolve the many societal issues that have arisen due to the spread of the infection. Specific initiatives include recommending that employees work from home or stagger their working hours, switching internal company meetings and events to videoconference format or other web- based sessions, and putting in place a set of countermeasures in cooperation with customers and government agencies in Japan and elsewhere. Through such measures, our goal is to maintain key business operations and meet our social responsibilities even while the infection remains uncontained.
For more information on our BCM activities, infectious disease countermeasures and BCM in our supply chain, please refer to the. 
PDF listed below in the activity outcomes for FY2019 in the “FY2019 Performance” section at the end of this document.
  BCM activities, infectious disease countermeasures, supply chain BCM https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/riskmanagement/2020_RiskManagement_BCM_en.pdf. 
FY2019 Performance. 
Risk Management Education 
 Fujitsu Group new executive training: 64 people. 
Uses specific examples to illustrate key points that new executives need to take note of, including internal regulatory systems and issues relating to risk management and compliance.
 Fujitsu Group new manager training: Approx. 700 people. 
An e-learning course that covers areas such as the basic approach to risk management and the role of managers regarding risk management.
 Risk Management & Compliance seminars: 193 people. 
These seminars aim to share the latest updates from the Risk Management & Compliance Committee with the Risk. 
Management Compliance officers and their assistants. The objective is for the information to be used for education and in other measures implemented by Fujitsu business divisions and group companies.
 Disaster Management Forum: 227 people. 
These forums are targeted at Fujitsu Group staff responsible for disaster management and business continuity in Japan.
They offer an opportunity for participants to share knowledge with the aim of improving our on-site responses to large-scale disasters.
 Training for Japan-based Fujitsu and group company staff prior to assignment outside Japan: 10 sessions. 
Provides employees assigned to roles outside Japan with information and training in advance on Fujitsu’s risk management systems, and the key points of overseas-specific risks and how to deal with those risks.
Disaster Management & BCM Training 
 Joint disaster response drills: Theme for FY2019: "Tokyo Inland Earthquake”
During Japan’s annual Disaster Preparedness Week, held every September, we conduct nationwide disaster response drills that incorporate mock disaster exercises. These drills are used to ensure and to verify that Fujitsu and its group companies in. 
Japan are fully versed in the essentials of dealing collaboratively with major disasters. (Proposed scenarios include “Tokyo. 
Inland Earthquake” and “Nankai Trough Megathrust Earthquake”.)
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-3-1. 
Information Security. 
Policy. 
The Fujitsu Group places ICT as our core business. Our corporate vision is to contribute to creating a safe, pleasant, networked society, we work to ensure and improve the level of information security throughout the Group.
In April 2016, we established the Fujitsu Group Information Security Policy(*1) in order to share this vision and encourage action by each employee. Based on this policy, we are implementing information security measures, along with establishing internal rules related to information management and ICT security at Group companies in Japan and overseas.
 *1 Complete text of the Fujitsu Group Information Security Policy (Global Security Policy) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/imagesgig5/InformationSecurityPolicy_en.pdf. 
KEIDANREN, otherwise known as the Japan Business Federation, announced its Declaration of Cyber Security Management in. 
March 2018. The Fujitsu Group supports KEIDANREN’s declaration as being consistent with principles set forth in the Fujitsu Cyber. 
Security Declaration (November 2016).
  KEIDANREN’s DECLARATION OF CYBER SECURITY MANAGEMENT https://www.keidanren.or.jp/en/policy/2018/018.pdf  The Fujitsu Declaration on Cybersecurity https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/security/Cybersecurity_declaration.pdf. 
Management Structure. 
Given the recent increase in cyberattacks, the Fujitsu Group appointed a Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) under the authority of the Risk Management and Compliance Committee(*2) in order to further strengthen security measures in the Group.
Moreover, in aiming to strengthen our global information security governance we have appointed Regional CISOs around the world.
 *2 Message from the Fujitsu Group Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) (page 2) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/resources/reports/securityreport/ 
Regional CISOs report to the CISO on information security measures implemented by security teams at each group company. The. 
CISO periodically reports to the Risk Management and Compliance Committee on the status of information security measures, and also makes additional reports whenever necessary.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-3-2. 
Security Controls. 
Functions. 
In order to strengthen information security measures, the. 
Fujitsu Group has established a Security Management. 
Organization under the direct control of the CISO. The. 
Security Management Organization implements controls by fulfilling the following functions: Security Management,
Security Measure Implementation, Monitoring, Analysis, and Evaluation, and Incident and Response.
 


Information Management Training. 
To prevent information leaks, instead of simply informing our employees of the various rules and regulations, it is important to raise the security awareness and skill level of each individual employee. The Fujitsu Group holds information management training for employees. Specifically, we hold e-
Learning for all employees (including executives) every year.
We also provide information security education during training for new employees and employees being promoted. At overseas Group companies, we hold information security training for employees every year.
We also provide information security managers with special security training for managers.

Security Measures. 
Three Important Measures Incorporating the Concept of Defense in Depth. 
The cyberattacks in recent years are prime examples of targeted attacks. These attacks have an unprecedented level of sophistication, diversity, and complexity. It is no longer possible to achieve comprehensive defense by using single types of conventional security measures.
The basic concept of information security measures at the Fujitsu Group incorporates defense in depth. This refers to implementing multilayer protection via multiple measures, instead of seeking protection through a single measure. Defense in depth has three objectives: 1) to prevent attacks by establishing a multilayer defense wall, 2) to discover attacks at an early stage by establishing a multilayer detection function, and 3) to minimize damage in the event of infiltration.
Appropriate implementation of these objectives makes it possible to prevent attacks and minimize damage.
The Fujitsu Group implements the following three priority internal information security measures: 1) information management for protecting information, 2) cybersecurity which focuses on measures for protecting systems against cyberattacks, and 3) physical security which prevents unauthorized access to facilities such as offices and plants.
e-Learning. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-3-3. 
Information Management. 
Safeguarding Information Through Information Protection Management Systems. 
Fujitsu and its domestic Group companies implement autonomous activities at work sites to properly safeguard third-party confidential information and our confidential information. Specifically, these include establishing appropriate management and taking action to protect information. Activities are designed to match circumstances at different customers and clients; for example, we consider rules for different industries and business categories. We also conduct audits by in-house, third-party organizations. In this way, we work to build information protection management systems to confirm the status of initiatives and improve protection of information.
Safeguarding Personal Information. 
As part of our efforts to protect personal information, Fujitsu acquired the PrivacyMark (*3) from. 
JIPDEC in August 2007. We are also working to continually enhance our personal information protection, including annual training and audits on personal information handling.
Domestic Group companies also acquire the PrivacyMark as needed and implement thorough personal information management. Privacy policies based on the laws and social demands of each country are posted on the websites of overseas Group companies.
 *3 The PrivacyMark is granted to business operators that appropriately handle personal information under personal information management systems that conform to JIS Q 15001:2017.
GDPR (*4) Response. 
Fujitsu has constructed a global personal information protection structure and is working to strengthen protection of personal data. Under the guidance of the CISO organization and legal business units, we have cooperated with entities such as our. 
European subsidiaries to develop guidelines and internal rules related to protection of individual rights in response to GDPR. We have also designed check sheets for the formulation, design, and initial setting of rules. Furthermore, we have updated the. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-3-4 operation process with the rules and held employee training.
In response to regulations on transfer of personal data outside of the EU, we applied to the Dutch Data Protection Authority (DPA) in December 2017 for our Binding Corporate Rules for Processors (BCR-P), which are common rules established across the. 
Fujitsu Group related to the handling of personal data that customers have entrusted to the Group for processing.
In addition, the European Commission and Japan have mutually recognized each other’s data protection laws, which went into effect on January 23, 2019, as providing an adequate level of protection. Based on this recognition, Fujitsu has established internal rules related to the handling of personal information moved between regions, and spread awareness regarding those rules.
 *4 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR): The GDPR (EU regulations requiring companies, organizations, and groups to protect personal information) was enacted on May 25, 2018. It includes regulations on transferring personal data out of the European Economic Area and the obligation to report data leaks within 72 hours.

For details on other security measures, please refer to the Fujitsu Group Information Security Report 2018 (pages 8 to 13).
https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/resources/reports/securityreport/
Cybersecurity. 
The Fujitsu Group implements separate measures at multiple layers based on network characteristics to prepare for cyberattacks.
We are working to protect against increasingly sophisticated, diverse, and complex cyberattacks by combining gateway security measures, including firewalls and targeted attack measures; network security measures, such as unauthorized access detection; and endpoint security measures, including malware measures and security patch management.
Physical Security. 
Fujitsu has built a physical security environment which combines manned guarding and mechanical security on three levels: sites, buildings and floors. Furthermore, in order to create an even more advanced physical security environment, we have internally deployed security gates in combination with a vein authentication device that can prevent identity theft.
Information System Certification. 
The Fujitsu Group is actively working to acquire third-party evaluations and certifications in its information security initiatives.
 Third-Party Evaluation and Certification https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/security/InfoSecurity_third_party_certification_en.pdf. 
FY 2019 Performance. 
Information management education 
 Company-wide e-learning education for information management (targeted Fujitsu employees: 35,400)  E-learning for newly-appointed managers (Fujitsu): 640 managers  Introductory education and e-learning for new employees (Fujitsu): 1,200 new employees. 
Please refer to the following URLs for details on information security in the Fujitsu Group.
 Fujitsu Group Information Security Report 2019 https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/resources/reports/securityreport/  Cyber Security https://www.fujitsu.com/global/themes/security/
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-4-1. 
Quality Initiatives. 
Quality Policy. 
In addition to establishing a corporate philosophy and charter that applies to all products/services, we have also established regulations and standards to uphold customer requests and the various features of our products/services. These are all based on the Fujitsu Way.
The Fujitsu Global Quality Policy represents a way of thinking, shared across the entire Group, for implementing a value system which holds the Fujitsu Way in high regard, “Trust: We contribute to a trusted society using technology.”
This quality policy was established in order to continue providing our customers with products/services that they can feel secure using, but also to define quality as a foundational part of our business, and come to a shared understanding of the policy worldwide.

Fujitsu Global Quality Policy 1. We pursue quality from the customer’s perspective.
2. We ensure quality to support safety and security.
3. We engage in quality improvements together with our business partners.
4. We have constructed a quality management and quality assurance system and we continuously engage in quality improvement activities.

Fujitsu has established the Fujitsu Group Quality Charter, as well as five quality-related regulations (Shipment, Registration, and. 
Release Regulations, Safety Promotion Regulations, etc.), in order to implement the Fujitsu Global Quality Policy.
All of our measures, from planning to design to evaluation, production, sales, and even follow-up support, are based on this charter and these regulations. This is necessary in order to continue providing products/services that stay one step ahead of our customers and any changes in their business landscapes.

Implementation Policy for the Safety of Our Products and Services. 
The Fujitsu Group recognizes its social responsibility to contribute to building a safe and secure society. The Fujitsu Group always considers and endeavors to improve the safety of products and services in every aspect of the group's business activities.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-4-2 1. Observation of laws and regulations. 
We observe laws and regulations concerning product and service safety.
2. Efforts to secure safety. 
We try to ensure that products and services are safe in a variety of use situations and take measures as necessary to secure the safety of the products and services. In addition to legally specified safety standards, we develop and observe voluntary safety standards in our endeavors to improve products and services continuously.
3. Prevention of incidents caused by improper use, etc.
For the safe use of products and services by customers, we properly display notices and warnings in handbooks or on the body of the products in order to prevent incidents caused by improper use or carelessness.
4. Collection of incident information, etc.
We actively collect safety-related information from customers, including information on product and service incidents and what might lead to such an incident.
5. Handling of incidents. 
We immediately check the facts of any occurring incident related to a product or service, investigate the cause, and handle it properly. If the product or service has a safety problem, we provide that information to customers and take proper measures, such as product recall, service recovery, and prevention of further damage and other damage from occurring. We quickly report the occurrence of major product incidents to the proper authorities in accordance with laws.
Our Approach to Promoting Quality Assurance. 
In addition to working with individual divisions and regions with regards to their quality assurance efforts, we also coordinate across the entire Group to share knowledge and information that transcend organizational boundaries. This helps us make better use of these efforts, and allows us to solve quality assurance issues that are shared across organizations.
This sharing of effective quality assurance efforts increases the overall quality of Fujitsu’s products/services, helps to prevent issues from occurring and reoccurring, and allows us to work toward consistent, optimal quality for our customers all over the world.
In order to ensure the promotion of these efforts Group-wide, we have selected Quality Management Representatives from relevant divisions both in Japan and overseas, through official HR announcements. These representatives will act as leaders, always participating in and helping implement Group-wide quality assurance efforts. They are led by the Global Quality. 
Assurance Unit, an organization that operates independently of our divisions.
System for Addressing Major Quality Issues. 
In the event of major quality issues with our products and services at Fujitsu, our executives and employees act in accordance with risk management regulations and report the issues immediately to the Risk Management and Compliance Committee.
Under the direction of the Committee, the relevant departments work together to consider how to respond to the quality issues, and how to prevent the issues from reoccurring. We also roll out the proposed measures for preventing reoccurrences to other departments through our Quality Management Representatives, and strive to prevent quality issues from reoccurring company- wide.
Marking and Labeling of Products and Services Regarding Quality and Safety. 
Fujitsu is dedicated to observing all relevant laws, regulations, systems and internal policies related to marking and labeling of products and services regarding quality and safety.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-4-3. 
Improving Quality Assurance: Quality Management. 
In order to provide a level of quality for our products and services which meets the needs and expectations of our customers in a consistent way, it is essential for us to coordinate with various organizations inside and outside Fujitsu—including business units, sales units, business partners, and common business units—from planning and design through development, manufacturing, testing, sales, operations, and up until maintenance. Frameworks and mechanisms to integrate these organizations are essential as a foundation for our efforts.
This is why we built our Quality Management System (QMS): to coordinate among these business units as appropriate for the product or service. QMS periodically verifies the progress of the PDCA cycle in light of international certification standards such as the ISO in the aim of achieving process improvements to realize even higher quality.

Qfinity. 
Since FY 2001, the Fujitsu Group has worked on Qfinity (*1), improvement and innovation activities where each employee plays a central role in continuing to improve the quality of our products and services, as well as the quality of every job, in order to achieve greater customer value (CV).
As our business model in recent years has undergone reform, we have made changes towards becoming a digital transformation (DX) company, and the “quality” that our customers demand has expanded to include several factors. On the other hand, in light of the current situation, where we are inconveniencing our customers due to issues relating to the quality of our products and services, we will return to the starting point of our improvement activities—the quality of our products and services—for Qfinity in. 
FY 2020. As for our initiatives that relate to “the quality of every job,” which includes a variety of quality factors, we will continue with our efforts in each organization so as to be able to respond in a flexible manner.
 *1 Qfinity, an internal branding term which combines the words “quality” and “infinity,” represents the DNA of the Fujitsu Group: the “infinite pursuit of quality by each and every employee.”
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-4-4. 
FY 2019 Performance. 
Disclosure of Information Related to Product Safety 
 Number of disclosed issues: No major product incidents (laptop battery ignition)* *With regards to this accident, Fujitsu has followed the relevant laws and regulations (Consumer Product Safety Act) appropriately, and reported to the Consumer Affairs Agency, as well as posted the contents on its website.
 Prevention Measures for Laptop Battery Ignition Incidents. 
On three previous occasions, Fujitsu has asked customers to exchange and return battery packs in order to prevent the spread of ignition incidents due to the possibility that foreign matter had contaminated the interior of the battery during the battery pack manufacturing process.
At the same time, however, although extremely rare, there have been cases of ignition occurring in battery packs outside those covered by the returns and exchanges.
It has been found that limiting the phenomena that increase the internal pressure of batteries is an effective measure in preventing these types of ignition incidents.
Since February 9, 2017, Fujitsu has been offering a "Battery Charging Control Update Tool" through its website for its laptop. 
PCs launched between 2010 and 2016. In addition, since November 2018, Fujitsu has been distributing the Battery Charging. 
Control Update Tool via Microsoft’s Windows Update service to the laptop PCs of all those affected in order to ensure all customers using the affected laptop PCs apply the update.
Marking and Labeling of Products and Services Regarding Quality and Safety. 
We experienced no marking or labeling violations related to products or safety.
ISO9001 / ISO20000 Certification Status. 
Fujitsu is continuously working to improve processes under the QMS.
 ISO9001: 36 divisions certified  ISO20000: 14 divisions certified. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-5-1. 
Working With Our Customers. 
Improving Customer Satisfaction. 
Our current era is characterized by dizzying levels of social and economic change, and it seems impossible to predict what will come about in the future. In this kind of landscape, it is vital that we maintain an accurate understanding of our customers’ various needs and adapt quickly to changes as they arise. In order to accomplish this, we must think and behave from the customer perspective, and engage continuously in reform.
Working with the Customer to Drive Field Innovation. 
Field Innovation is utilizing sensors, videos and other cutting-edge digital technology to observe and analyze people’s behaviors and mentalities in the places where our customers actually are, and discovering wasteful parts of processes, as well as possible hints for making improvements, which were heretofore unnoticed. We optimize Fujitsu’s advanced technology in order to maximize value for our customers and provide support for their efforts to evolve and grow their businesses.
This process happens through our Field Innovators (FIers), and their work with the customers. These are individuals who have built up their careers in various business areas, and who are skilled at advancing reform, utilizing visualization technologies, and consensus building. FIers delve into customers’ actual places of business to confirm the intentions of top-level management, and identify challenges by conducting on-site interviews and visualization processes. Working in conjunction with customers, FIers provide support for resolving customer issues from a third-party perspective.
  FY 2019 Field Innovation Performance: 315 cases  Field Innovation https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/businesspolicy/fieldinnovation/en/  Field Innovation Case Studies https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/businesspolicy/fieldinnovation/en/case-studies/
The Fujitsu Customer Contact Center and Fujitsu Contact Line. 
Both the Fujitsu Customer Contact Center and the Fujitsu Contact Line allow us to gain an accurate understanding of customer inquiries, and quickly transfer customer inquiries to the relevant division. They also work as a form of surveillance, helping prevent missed and late responses. These improve customer satisfaction by facilitating quick responses, and also allow us to analyze customer inquiries so that we can improve the development and quality of our products and services. We also have an international coordination system in place for these points of contact, in order to facilitate smooth communication both domestically and internationally.
  Customer Contact Center / Fujitsu Contact Line (Japanese only) https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/resources/contact/others/customer/ 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-5-2. 

The Fujitsu Family Association. 
As Japan’s largest ICT user coalition, the Fujitsu Family Association (hereafter, the Family Association), which is made up of approximately 4,250 companies and organizations that have adopted Fujitsu products and services, offers opportunities to socialize and exchange information that are mutually beneficial for both Family Association members and Fujitsu. The Family. 
Association has made significant contributions to the building of long-lasting relationships among its members. The purpose of the association is to provide a place for each member company to solve the issues they face based on the pillars of human resources development, information gathering, and cross-industry cooperation, and for sharing their thoughts and values related to ICT.
The activities of the Family Association are supported by the efforts of its 11 branches nationwide, from Hokkaido to Okinawa.
Each branch has devised its own way to organize events such as ICT-related seminars, personnel development, and locally oriented social events, for a total of roughly 500 events and approximately 30,000 participants each year.
  Fujitsu Family Association (Japanese only) https://jp.fujitsu.com/family/ 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-5-3. 
Advertising and Promotion Policy. 
At Fujitsu, we work to make sure that our advertising makes use of fair and appropriate language and symbols, and are in adherence to laws, regulations, and in-house rules. In FY 2020, we will engender the trust of society through innovation, and promote our initiatives to make the world a more sustainable place, so that those efforts will be more widely recognized. In FY 2019, we plan to promote the efforts we have made to collaborate with customer businesses using our strength in digital technologies, and make these efforts more widely known to the public. We also set goals (KPIs) and monitor these indices via the PDCA cycle to see if they have been achieved, in order to determine whether our advertising policies have been effective and cost-effective.
Due to changes in the Fujitsu business model, we have also not had products and/or services that would fall under the regulation of the Act Against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Representations.
Fujitsu offer contact lines where the general public can voice their opinions about our advertisements. We take all of these opinions to heart, respond in a measured way with regard to matters that require a response, and do our best to engage in further communication.
  Advertising and Promotion (Japanese only) https://jad.fujitsu.com/
Universal Design. 
Fujitsu promotes universal design for products and services, with the aim of helping to create a safe, comfortable, and plentiful society where each person can fully demonstrate their own abilities.

Fujitsu’s Role. 
There is a globally shared awareness that the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) established by the United Nations, which aim to make a sustainable world a reality, are common challenges. Ideas about diversity and inclusion are part of the context for these SDGs. By offering products and services that anyone can use, as well as technology and ICT infrastructure to support them,
Fujitsu contributes to the creation of this sustainable, diverse, and plentiful society.
 1. Aiding the five senses. 
We aid the five senses and offer diverse usage methods, so that differences in senses such as vision and hearing do not restrict the use of products and services.
2. Reducing physical stress. 
We design dimensions, layouts, and operation methods to allow low-strain usage for all, regardless of physical abilities such as stature, strength, mobility, posture, and wheelchair use.
3. Caring about experience and culture. 
We present information using expressions that can be clearly understood by users of diverse personal experiences and cultural backgrounds.
4. Ensuring availability. 
We consider time and place, weather, the individual user, surrounding conditions, and other aspects, and adapt to changing conditions.
5. Maximizing usability. 
We pursue greater usability, to raise levels of safety, sense of security, effectiveness, sufficiency, and satisfaction.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
6-5-4  Fujitsu Universal Design https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/businesspolicy/tech/design/ud/  FY 2019 Examples of Efforts Toward Universal Design. 
We received five International Design Award 2019 awards (including a Grand Prize and Gold Award) from the International. 
Association for Universal Design (IAUD). This award is given to individuals/organizations who have achieved particularly outstanding ideas or results, towards the realization of a UD society that is secure and comfortable for as many people as possible.
https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/businesspolicy/tech/design/ud/  IAUD International Design Award 2019 (Award Details) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/businesspolicy/tech/design/awards/#2019-05  Customer Workshops to Implement More Inclusive DX. 
By co-creating with customers, Fujitsu aspires to create services, organizations, and a society that is inclusive and better enriches our lives. We offer co-creation workshops where we forge visions and ideas created from diverse perspectives, as well as sustainable solutions. In FY 2019, we conducted workshops with customers in order to implement diversity and inclusion, centered around the theme of improving the user experience on public transportation for wheelchair users. We are currently working on implementing the solutions that were brought up during the workshop.
https://www.fujitsu.com/cocreating-program/
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
7. 

 

Data and Documents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
7-1-1. 
External Recognition and Awards. 
Fujitsu continues to be highly regarded throughout the world for its social and environmental initiatives, which have won awards from external organizations and led to inclusion in the following stock market indexes.
Inclusion status for major stock market indexes related to Socially. 
Responsible Investment (SRI) 
Stock market index Description Logo. 
Dow Jones Sustainability. 
Indices (World, Asia. 
Pacific)
Highly regarded as a global index for SRI, this index evaluates 2,500 companies around the world in terms of corporate economic, environmental, and social performance, and recognizes the top 10% of them as DJSI World. Fujitsu has been included in the index for eight consecutive years, and 20 times overall.

FTSE4Good Index Series. 
FTSE is an investment-related organization established by the. 
London Stock Exchange which has created this globally- recognized SRI index that evaluates companies based on their environmental, social and governance practices. Fujitsu has been selected for inclusion in the index for ten consecutive years.

CDP. 
International non-profit organization CDP represents a network of institutional investors that control over $96 trillion in assets. CDP scores over 5,000 companies throughout the world on their environmental action and identifies those that it rates highest as the “A List.” Fujitsu has earned a spot on the A List for action on climate change for Three consecutive years and for water security this year.

MSCI ESG Select Leaders. 
Indexes (World, Japan)
These world-renowned ESG (Environmental, Social,
Governmental) indexes were developed by global stock index provider MSCI. Companies with outstanding ESG performance are selected for the indexes, and Fujitsu has been included for nine years running.

STOXX® Global ESG. 
Leaders. 
This index compiled by STOXX, a subsidiary of Deutsche Börse, selects companies that meet criteria based on the results of research by ESG research company Sustainalytics from the. 
Netherlands. Fujitsu has been included in the index for five consecutive years.
ISS-oekom Corporate. 
Rating. 
Germany-based CSR ratings company ISS-oekom produces these corporate responsibility ratings which rate companies according to environment, social, and governance topics. The ratings have conferred Prime Status on Fujitsu since 2011.
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
7-1-2. 
Ethibel Sustainability. 
Index (ESI) (Excellence. 
Register)
The Ethibel Excellence Investment Register is an investment universe managed by Forum Ethibel, an NPO headquartered in Belgium. The Ethibel Sustainability Index is comprised of companies from this register which demonstrate superior performance from a CSR perspective. Fujitsu has been included in the index from 2013 through 2016, and in 2018.
Euronext Vigeo Index -
World 120. 
This sustainability ratings index by the world’s largest securities trading group NYSE Euronext and European CSR performance ratings company Vigeo Eiris selects the stocks of the 120 companies with the best environmental, social, and corporate governance performance. Fujitsu was included from 2013 through 2015, and in 2017, and 2018.
Major external awards received (from FY 2019 onward) 
Award Month/Year Detail Logo. 
Certified as "eco-first company" Since 2010. 
In September 2010, the Fujitsu Group was certified as a "eco-first company" by the Ministry of the. 
Environment's "eco-first system". This is the first certification in the IT services industry. "eco-first system" is a system under which each company pledges to the Minister of the Environment that it will take measures to protect the environment, including measures against global warming and the preservation of biodiversity, in order to further promote the environmental conservation activities of the industry's leading companies.

Past recognition and awards. 
Contents Fiscal Year Detail Logo. 
Chosen for the Diversity. 
Management Selection 100. 
FY 2013. 
Fujitsu was recognized by the Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry as a company that promotes diversity, creates innovation, generates value, and employs diverse human resources.

Selected as a Nadeshiko. 
Brand FY 2015. 
Fujitsu was selected as a Nadeshiko Brand in FY 2015 by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the. 
Tokyo Stock Exchange for being a company that actively encourages women’s success in the workplace.

Eruboshi (level 3) certification FY 2016. 
Under the provisions of the Act on Promotion of. 
Women’s Participation and Advancement in the. 
Workplace, the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare certified Fujitsu as a company with excellent performance in promoting women’s success in the workplace.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
7-1-3. 
Contents Fiscal Year Detail Logo. 
Pride Index Gold Award FY 2016, 2017. 
Non-profit group Work with Pride presented Fujitsu with its Gold Award as a company that satisfies all elements of its Pride Index, Japan’s first index that measures LGBT-related efforts of companies and organizations.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
7-2-1. 
Social Data. 
The data marked with * are assured by the third party.
Employees in Fujitsu group. 
FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 GRI. 
Number of employees by region *1. 
Total 140,365 132,138 129,071*
G102-7,8,
Japan 92,476 85,347 82,232. 
Asia 12,376 10,488 10,794. 
Oceania 3,137 2,926 2,734. 
The Americas 5,867 5,262 4,988. 
EMEIA 26,509 28,115 28,323. 
Number of. 
Employees by Type of Contract (person)
Full-time 140,365 132,138 129,071. 
Non Full-time *2 15,883 12,990 12,750 *1 Based on the number of enrollment employees.
*2 Including fixed term employees (contracted, part-time, etc.) and excluding dispatched workers.
Board of Directors (As of June 22, 2020) 
End of June, 2018 End of June, 2019 End of June, 2020 GRI. 
Directors. 
Total 10 10 9. 
G405-1,
Male 8 8 7. 
Female 2 2 2. 
External directors 4 4 5. 
Non-Japanese directors 1 0 1. 
Diversity (Fujitsu Limited) 
FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 GRI. 
Number of employees *1. 
Total 32,969 31,827 32,568*
G405-1,
Average age *2 43.3 43.2 43.6*
Number of employees by age group. 
Under 30 4,337 4,432 4,503* 30-49 17,655 16,287 15,549* 50 and over 10,977 11,108 12,516*
Number of employees by gender (person)
Male 27,462 26,397 26,919. 
Female 5,507 5,430 5,649. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
7-2-2. 
FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 GRI. 
Ratio of female employees (%) 16.7% 17.1% 17.3%
Ratio of female executives and managers (%) 5.71% 6.15% 6.64%*
Ratio of newly appointed female managers (%) (qualified personnel) 11.3% 11.5% 13.3%
Number of non-Japanese employees (person) 383 391 436. 
Employment rate of people with disabilities (%)*3(counted in every June) 2.15% 2.28% 2.23%* *1 The number of employees as of the end of the fiscal year (March 20) includes executive officers and does not include non-regular employees.
*2 At the end of the fiscal year (March 31) *3 Fujitsu and Fujitsu Harmony (special subsidiary)
Employment (Fujitsu Limited) 
FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 GRI. 
Average year of service *1. 
Total 19.4 19.2 19.5*
Male 20.0 19.9 20.3. 
Female 16.4 16.0 16.1. 
Ratio of new hires 84.1% 83.3% 72.3% *1 At the end of the fiscal year (March 31)
Using the Care Leave and Short Work Hours system (Fujitsu Limited) 
FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 GRI. 
Number of employees using child care leave *1 *2. 
Total 425 442 541*
G401-3,
Male 42 60 110. 
Female 383 382 431. 
Return to work rate after child care leave (%)
Total 98.4% 99.5% 97.7%
Male 100% 100% 100%
Female 98.3% 99.4% 97.3%
Continuous work rate after child care leave (%)
Total 98.3% 97.8% 98.3%
Male 93.3% 83.3% 95.5%
Female 98.8% 98.8% 98.7%
Number of employees using family care leave *1. 
Total 7 17 12*
Male 4 12 9. 
Female 3 5 3. 
Return to work rate after family care leave (%) 100% 95.0% 100%
Continuous work rate after family care leave (%) 92.3% 71.4% 64.7%
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
7-2-3. 
FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 GRI. 
Number of employees using. 
Short working hours (child care) *1. 
Total 871 841 883*
Male 21 19 26. 
Female 850 822 857. 
Number of employees using. 
Short working hours (family care) *1. 
Total 13 9 13*
Male 6 3 4. 
Female 7 6 9. 
Paternity leave *1 652 585 554* *1 Data applies to regular employees enrolled as of the end of the fiscal year (March 20).
*2 Short-term childcare leave taken within 8 weeks after childbirth and subsequent reacquisition (so-called papa vacation) are counted as 1 person each.
Occupational Safety and Health (Fujitsu Limited) 
FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 GRI. 
Lost time injury frequency rate *1 0.18 0.28 0.14*
G403-2,
Severity (rate) 0.000 0.000 0.000 *1 Number of work-related absences per 1 million working hours. 
Human Resource Development. 
FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 GRI. 
Average Hours. 
Dedicated to. 
Training Per. 
Employee (Fujitsu)
Total 45.3 49.9 (To be updated)
G404-1 Executive. 
Employees 34.8 31.9 (To be updated)
Ordinary Employees 49.4 53.8 (To be updated) *1 Fujitsu and domestic Group companies. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
8-1. 
Fujitsu Group Profile (as of March 31, 2020) 
Company Name Fujitsu Limited. 
Addresses ●Kawasaki Main Office 4-1-1 Kamikodanaka, Nakahara-ku,
Kawasaki-shi, Kanagawa 211-8588,
Japan ●Headquarters. 
Shiodome City Center 1-5-2 Higashi-
Shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-7123,
Japan. 
Representative Director President Takahito Tokita. 
Established June 20, 1935. 
Main Business Activities. 
Manufacture and sale of communications systems, information processing systems, and electronic devices, and the provision of services related to those products. 
Capital ¥324.6 billion. 
Total Assets ¥3,187.4billion (Liabilities: ¥1,839.0billion,
Net assets: ¥1,348.4 billion)
Fiscal Year-end March 31. 
Employees Consolidated 129,071/
Non-consolidated: 32,568. 
Directors 9 (incl. 2 female directors and 5 outside directors, as of June 22, 2020)
Consolidated Subsidiaries 391 companies. 
Equity-method Affiliates 25 companies. 
Stock Exchange Listings Tokyo, Nagoya. 
Regarding Our Business Segments. 
The Fujitsu Group provides a wide range of services and products with the advanced technology, high performance and high quality essential for the future of the ICT sector, and operates an integrated total solutions business, from the development, manufacture and sale of those products and electronic devices to the provision of maintenance services.
Break down of Revenue by Business Segment. 
Note: Revenue include intersegment sales. 
Ubiquitous Solutions. 
The Ubiquitous Solutions segment provides corporate PCs.
Technology Solutions. 
The Technology Solutions segment provides corporate customers around the globe with IT-driven business solutions based on our advanced technology and high-quality system platforms and services.
Data center (Tatebayashi) 
Device Solutions. 
The Device Solutions segment provides LSI devices for digital consumer electronics, automobiles, mobile phones and servers, as well as semiconductor packages and other electronic components. The segment also offers electronic components, such as batteries.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
8-2. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
9. 
Financial & Non-Financial Highlights 
* Indicators assured by third party 

 
* * *
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
10-1. 
Sustainability Data Book Framework. 
Our Sustainability Website and Data Book. 
Fujitsu established a sustainability website in FY 2019 in order to disclose non-financial information from the “Fujitsu Group. 
Integrated Report” in more detail. Through this website, we are able to update our sustainability information in a more timely manner.
We will also begin release of our “Sustainability Data Book,” a PDF that contains the information on our website, every year at the end of October, in order to leave a record of the information that has been disclosed.
See here for an update history of the website.

Guidelines Referenced 
 GRI Standards  Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012/2018 versions / Ministry of the Environment)  UN Global Compact  ISO26000. 
Comparison Table of Guidelines Referenced (GRI / UN Global Compact) https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/resources/reports/sustainabilityreport/2020-report/fujitsudatabook2020- 12e.pdf (“p.12-1” to “p.12-12”)
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
10-2. 
Reporting Period. 
This website focuses on activities in FY 2019, from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020, and the data presented is actual performance data from that period. However, information from up to the end of October 2020 is also presented if it is a part of important announcements regarding sustainability.
Target Readership. 
This report is written assuming the following readership: Fujitsu stakeholders including customers, employees, stockholders/investors, suppliers/business partners, international society/local communities, and public institutions/governments.
Organizations Covered. 
Description of social fields of this data book generally refers to the Fujitsu Group as a whole.
“Fujitsu” in the text refers to Fujitsu, Ltd., “Fujitsu Group” refers to Fujitsu, Ltd. and its consolidated subsidiaries inside and outside of Japan, and “Fujitsu and its domestic Group companies” refers to Fujitsu, Ltd. and its consolidated subsidiaries in Japan.
When using descriptors that are not listed above, we will specify the organizations that are covered.
  “Community Involvement” Section https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/csr/editingpolicy/social_e.pdf  “For Our Environment” Section *Refer to the following Target Organizations table or see Data Book 5 -3 -4 -10 to 5 -3 -4 -14.
https://www.fujitsu.com/jp/about/environment/organization/
About Third Party Assurance. 
In order to ensure the reliability of the content in the Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020, we asked a third party, KPMG. 
AZSA Sustainability Co., to examine and post a review of the report.
  About Third Party Assurance https://www.fujitsu.com/global/documents/about/resources/reports/sustainabilityreport/2020-report/fujitsudatabook2020- 11e.pdf (p.11)
Contact 
 Responsible Business Division, Sustainability Unit, Fujitsu Ltd.
Shiodome City Center,1-5,2 Higashi-Shimbashi, Minato-ku,105-7123, Japan https://www.fujitsu.com/global/about/csr/contact/
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
11. 
Independent Assurance Report. 
In order to ensure the reliability of the contents of the Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020, we asked a third party, KPMG. 
AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. to examine and post a review of the report.

Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
12-1. 
GRI Standards / United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles Comparison Table. 
GRI Standards Indicator (*: Core performance indicator) References UNGC principle. 
GRI 102: General Disclosures 1. Organizational profile 102-1* Report the name of the organization. ◆Fujitsu Group Profile − 102-2* Report the primary brands, products, and services ◆Fujitsu Group Profile − 102-3* Report the location of the organization's headquarters. ◆Fujitsu Group Profile [Reference]Organization − 102-4* Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and the names of countries where it has significant operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report.
◆Fujitsu Group Profile −
102-5* Report the nature of ownership and legal form. ◆Corporate Governance ◆Fujitsu Group Profile [Reference]WEB(Worldwide) −
102-6* Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries).
◆Fujitsu Group Profile − 102-7* Report the scale of the organization, including: Total number of employees - Total number of operations - Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) - Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) - Quantity of products or services provided ◆Fujitsu Group Profile ◆Social Data [Reference]Fujitsu at a Glance −
102-8* a. Report the number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender.
b. Report the number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region.
c. Report the number of employees by employment type (full- time and part-time), by gender.
d. Report Whether a significant portion of the organization’s activities are performed by workers who are not employees. If applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed by workers who are not employees.
e. Report any significant variations (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries).
f. Report an explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made.
◆Fujitsu Group Profile ◆Social Data −
102-9* Describe the organization's supply chain. ◆Supply Chain 102-10* Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization's size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: ◆Sustainability Report Framework ◆Integrated Report Financial Section −
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
12-2. 
GRI Standards Indicator (*: Core performance indicator) References UNGC principle - Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions - Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) - Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination.
102-11* Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization.
◆Fujitsu Way ◆United Nations Global Compact ◆Human Rights ◆Risk Management ◆Environmental Policy ◆Response to Environmental Risks −
102-12* List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses.
◆United Nations Global Compact ◆Human Rights − 102-13* List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: - Holds a position on the governance body.
- Participates in projects or committees.
- Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues.
- Views membership as strategic.
◆United Nations Global Compact −
2. Strategy 102-14* Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability ◆Message from the President −
102-15 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ◆Risk Management ◆Medium/Long-term Environmental Vision ◆Response to Environmental Risks 
− 3. Ethics and integrity 102-16* Describe the organization's values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics.
◆Fujitsu Way ◆Sustainability Management in the Fujitsu Group ◆Compliance −
102-17 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines.
Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines.
◆Compliance ◆Human Rights −
4. Governance 102-18* Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any ◆Corporate Governance ◆Environmental Management System −
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
12-3. 
GRI Standards Indicator (*: Core performance indicator) References UNGC principle committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts.
102-19 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees.
◆Corporate Governance −
102-20 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive- level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body.
◆Corporate Governance −
102-21 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body.
◆Corporate Governance ◆Compliance − 102-22 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: - Executive or non-executive Independence - Tenure on the governance body - Number of each individual's other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments - Gender - Membership of under-represented social groups - Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts - Stakeholder representation ◆Corporate Governance ◆Corporate Governance Report −
102-23 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement).
◆Corporate Governance 102-24 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: - Whether and how diversity is considered - Whether and how independence is considered - Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered - Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved.
◆Corporate Governance ◆Corporate Governance Report −
102-25 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: - Cross-board membership - Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders - Existence of controlling shareholder. 
Related party disclosures ◆Corporate Governance ◆Corporate Governance Report −
102-26 Report the highest governance body's and senior executives' roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization's purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts.
◆Sustainability Management in the Fujitsu Group −
102-27 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest ◆Sustainability Management in the Fujitsu Group − ◆Corporate Governance Report. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
12-4. 
GRI Standards Indicator (*: Core performance indicator) References UNGC principle governance body's collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics.
102-28 a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body's performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment.
b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body's performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice.
◆Sustainability Management in the Fujitsu Group ◆Corporate Governance ◆Corporate Governance Report −
102-29 a. Report the highest governance body's role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body's role in the implementation of due diligence processes.
b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body's identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities.
◆Corporate Governance ◆Risk Management 
− 102-30 Report the highest governance body's role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization's risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics.
◆Corporate Governance ◆Risk Management − 102-31 Report the frequency of the highest governance body's review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities.
◆Risk Management 
102-32 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization's sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered.
◆Sustainability Management in the Fujitsu Group −
102-33 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body.
◆Corporate Governance ◆Risk Management − 102-34 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them.
− − 102-35 a. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: - Fixed pay and variable pay: - Performance-based pay - Equity-based pay - Bonuses - Deferred or vested shares - Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments - Termination payments - Clawbacks - Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees b. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body's and senior executives' economic, environmental and social objectives.
◆Corporate Governance ◆Corporate Governance Report −
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
12-5. 
GRI Standards Indicator (*: Core performance indicator) References UNGC principle 102-36 Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization.
◆Corporate Governance ◆Corporate Governance Report −
102-37 Report how stakeholders' views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable.
◆Corporate Governance ◆Corporate Governance Report − 102-38 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country.
− − 102-39 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country.
− − 5. Stakeholder engagement 102-40* Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. ◆Sustainability Management in the Fujitsu Group − 102-41* Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.
◆Performance Evaluation and Compensation /
Work Environment 1, 3 102-42* Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage.
◆Sustainability Management in the Fujitsu Group ◆Stakeholder Dialogue − 102-43* Report the organization's approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process.
◆Stakeholder Dialogue 
<Customers, International Society, Local. 
Community> ◆Working With Our Customers ◆Quality Initiatives ◆Community Activities 
<Suppliers> ◆Supply Chain 
<Employees> ◆Diversity and Inclusion ◆Human Rights ◆Performance Evaluation and Compensation /
Work Environment ◆Health and Safety ◆Health Management ◆Human Resources Development and Career. 
Design 1∼10 102-44* Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns.
◆Stakeholder Dialogue ◆Working With Our Customers −
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
12-6. 
GRI Standards Indicator (*: Core performance indicator) References UNGC principle 6. Reporting Practice 102-45* a. List all entities included in the organization's consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents.
b. Report whether any entity included in the organization's consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report.
◆Fujitsu Group Profile ◆Sustainability Data Book Framework ◆Integrated Report Financial Section [Reference]Organization −
102-46* a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the. 
Aspect Boundaries.
b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting. 
Principles for Defining Report Content.
◆Sustainability Management in the Fujitsu Group −
102-47* List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content.
◆Sustainability Management in the Fujitsu Group −
102-48* Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements.
◆Sustainability Data Book Framework − 102-49* Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the. 
Scope and Aspect Boundaries.
◆Sustainability Data Book Framework − 102-50* Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided.
◆Sustainability Data Book Framework − 102-51* Date of most recent previous report (if any). ◆Sustainability Data Book Framework − 102-52* Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). ◆Sustainability Data Book Framework − 102-53* Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.
◆Sustainability Data Book Framework − 102-54* Report the 'in accordance' option the organization has chosen. ◆GRI Guideline/UNGC 10 Principles Comparison. 
Table ◆Independent Assurance Report −
102-55* Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. ◆GRI Guideline/UNGC 10 Principles Comparison. 
Table ◆Independent Assurance Report −
102-56* Assurance a. Report the organization's policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report.
b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided.
c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers.
d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization's sustainability report.
◆Independent Assurance Report −
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1* For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization ◆Sustainability Management in the Fujitsu Group ◆Sustainability Data Book Framework − 103-2 Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic.
b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach ◆Human Rights ◆Diversity and Inclusion ◆Occupational Health and Safety −
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
12-7. 
GRI Standards Indicator (*: Core performance indicator) References UNGC principle c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: i. Policies ii. Commitments iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives ◆Human Resource Development and Career. 
Design ◆Quality Initiatives ◆Supply Chain ◆Community Activities ◆Environmental Policy ◆Medium/Long-term Environmental Vision ◆Environmental Management System 103-3 An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach.
◆Human Resource Development and Career. 
Design ◆Supply Chain ◆Environmental Management System −
GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. − − 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change.
◆Response to Environmental Risks 7, 8, 9 201-3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. [Reference] Integrated Report Financial Section − 201-4 Financial assistance received from government. − −
GRI 202: Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. − − 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. − −
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported.
◆Activities that empower people through partnerships ◆Social contribution activities contributing to the development of science and technology 8, 9 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. − −
GRI 204: Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation. − −
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified. − 10. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
12-8. 
GRI Standards Indicator (*: Core performance indicator) References UNGC principle 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures.
◆Fujitsu Way ◆Compliance 10 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. − −
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti- trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. − −
GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume ◆Material Balance 301-2 Recycled input materials used − 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials −
GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization ◆Material Balance 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization ◆Material Balance 302-3 Energy intensity ◆Reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions at. 
Our Business Sites 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption ◆Reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions at. 
Our Business Sites ◆Environmental Performance Data Calculation. 
Standards 
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services ◆Reducing CO2 Emissions Through Products That. 
Consume Less Power When in Use ◆Environmental Performance Data Calculation. 
Standards 9. 
GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source − 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water − 303-3 Water recycled and reused −
GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas −
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity − 304-3 Habitats protected or restored ◆Activities that empower people through partnerships. 
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
12-9. 
GRI Standards Indicator (*: Core performance indicator) References UNGC principle 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations −
GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions ◆Global Warming Prevention 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions ◆Global Warming Prevention 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ◆Global Warming Prevention 305-4 GHG emissions intensity ◆Reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions at. 
Our Business Sites 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions ◆Reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions at. 
Our Business Sites 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) − 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions ◆Material Balance. 
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination ◆Material Balance 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method ◆Limiting the Amount of Waste Generated ◆Material Balance 306-3 Significant spills − 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste − 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff −
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations ◆Case Studies, Initiatives in Environmental. 
Management. 
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria − 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken −
GRI 401: Employment 401-1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region.
◆Social Data ◆Performance Evaluation and Compensation /
Work Environment −
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation.
◆Performance Evaluation and Compensation /
Work Environment −
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
12-10. 
GRI Standards Indicator (*: Core performance indicator) References UNGC principle 401-3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. ◆Social Data 6. 
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements. − −
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 403-1 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs.
◆Health and Safety 1
403-2 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender.
◆Social Data −
403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation.
◆Health and Safety ◆Risk Management 1 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions.
◆Health and Safety −
GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category.
◆Human Resource Development and Career. 
Design − 404-2 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings.
◆Human Resource Development and Career. 
Design 6 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category. − −
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity.
◆Social Data 1, 6 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation.
− −
GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. − −
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights.
◆Supply Chain ◆Compliance −
GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor.
◆Supply Chain ◆Compliance −
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
12-11. 
GRI Standards Indicator (*: Core performance indicator) References UNGC principle. 
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor.
◆Supply Chain ◆Compliance −
GRI 410: Security Practices 410-1 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations.
− −
GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 411-1 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken. − −
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 412-1 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments.
◆Human Rights − 412-2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained.
◆Fujitsu Way ◆Human Rights 1 412-3 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening.
− −
GRI 413: Local Communities 413-1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. − 8 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities. − 7, 8. 
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria. − − 414-2 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken. − −
GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary. − −
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement.
◆Quality Initiatives ◆Supply Chain 9 416-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.
◆Quality Initiatives −
Return to Table of Contents


Fujitsu Group Sustainability Data Book 2020 
12-12. 
GRI Standards Indicator (*: Core performance indicator) References UNGC principle. 
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements.
− − 417-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes.
◆Quality Initiatives −
417-3 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes.
◆Working With Our Customers −
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 418-1 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data.
◆Information Security −
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non- monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations.
◆Compliance −

Return to Table of Contents