OMV Aktiengesellschaft. 
Sustainability Report 2019. 
Non-financial report. 
The energy for a better life.


About This Report. 
This report covers the operations of the OMV Group, headquartered in Vienna, Austria, for the 2019 business year.
Report Scope, Material Topics, and Boundaries. 
OMV’s 2019 Sustainability Report, a document published annually (most recent Sustainability Report published on April 18, 2019), was prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Core option. This Report is the combined, consolidated, non-financial report of the OMV Group in line with the Austrian Nachhaltigkeits- und Diversitätsverbesserungsgesetz (Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act; NaDiVeG), namely in accordance with Section 267a of the Austrian Commercial Code, and guided by Oil and Gas Sector Disclosures presented following the launch of the GRI G4 Guidelines. The 2019 Report describes our management and performance of the material Environmental, Social, and Governance issues for our Company.
This Sustainability Report has been externally assured. The independent assurance (limited assurance) has been performed in accordance with the requirements of the. 
ISAE 3000 (Revised) standard. Our disclosures focus on the topics that have been deemed most material to our business and stakeholders during the materiality analysis performed in 2017 and reviewed in 2019 (see Reporting on materiality).
The data presented in the Report is consolidated at Group level. This boundary applies to all material topics, unless clearly indicated otherwise for a particular material topic in the text of this Sustainability Report.
All of the Health, Safety, Security, and Environment (HSSE) data, including greenhouse gas data for Scope 1 and Scope 2, is collected for activities where OMV is the operator, or where OMV has a stake of more than 50% and exerts a controlling influence. This approach follows industry best practice and is aligned with IPIECA oil and gas industry guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting.
The document also serves as our Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact.
More information about OMV can be found in the OMV Annual Report 2019, in the OMV Factbook, and on our website: www.omv.com. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / 2


IN THIS CHAPTER. 
CEO Statement 4. 
Letter of the Supervisory Board 6. 
OMV at a Glance 7. 
Sustainability Framework 12. 
Risks and opportunities management 22. 
Stakeholder map 28. 
Reporting on materiality 29. 
Environmental, Social, and Governance Ratings and Indices 30. 
Sustainability at OMV


CEO Statement. 
Ladies and Gentlemen,
In a difficult market environment, OMV was once again able to build on the successful financial performance of recent years in 2019. We pursued international expansion and further market diversification as well as making strategic portfolio changes by completing projects to boost gas production and expand refinery capacity. In addition to growing our long-term Company value, we also made substantial progress in repositioning OMV for a lower-carbon future. The Executive Board is committed to developing our business in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
I am very pleased to be able to present to you our 15th Sustainability Report. In it, we describe our successes in environmental protection and carbon efficiency, and highlight our contribution to society.
In the past year, politicians and the public have come to expect a great deal more from oil and gas companies in terms of adapting their strategies. Climate activists have held numerous demonstrations demanding a faster and greater reduction of our carbon footprint. The capital markets are also increasingly calling on companies to report ESG goals. We face the challenge of supplying affordable energy to a growing global population and doing so in a responsible and carbon-efficient manner.
I am convinced that the necessary changes can only be made if governments, the public, and businesses work together. And I am equally confident that the way to achieve this goal is through technological innovation.
Oil and gas are essential for our lives today and will continue to be valuable resources in the future. They are needed as part of the reliable, modern energy mix necessary to ensure sustainable economic growth, preserve prosperity, and combat poverty.
“In addition to growing our longterm Company value, we also made substantial progress in repositioning OMV for a lowercarbon future.”
Many well-known research institutions expect worldwide demand for energy and high-quality petrochemicals, which are used to manufacture necessary products such as pharmaceuticals, plastics, and insulation, to grow. This is also the focus of our corporate strategy. We are concentrating on further diversifying our business – both geographically, by continuing to develop Asia as a new core region, and in terms of our product portfolio, by growing our natural gas activities. Several acquisitions and divestments were completed in 2019 with the aim of increasing the share of gas in the Upstream portfolio to 65% by 2025. In line with our objective “produce more valuable products, burn less,” we also acquired an equity stake in the Ruwais refinery with integrated petrochemical production in Abu Dhabi.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 4


In terms of OMV’s sustainability achievements, I am pleased that we were able to further improve our workplace safety performance in 2019. This is the result of all of the efforts we have undertaken in recent years to enhance occupational health and safety. At the same time, we improved process safety and stepped up our activities in the fields of human rights protection and community engagement.
“This year, we will again review our climate protection goals and set even more ambitious targets. We will further diversify our product portfolio, offer customers more environmentally friendly products, and further expand our petrochemical business.”
We have pledged to reduce the carbon emissions of our operations, as well as the carbon footprint of our product portfolio in order to make a significant contribution to climate protection. As part of our Sustainability Strategy, we are continually working to limit our product portfolio’s impact on the environment. In 2019, for instance, we were able to reduce the carbon intensity of our energy supply by 2% from 70 g CO2 to 68.6 g CO2 per unit of energy (MJ) as compared with 2018. In addition, we already achieved our 2025 carbon intensity targets ahead of schedule. This year, we will again review our climate protection goals and set even more ambitious targets. We will further diversify our product portfolio, offer customers more environment- ally friendly products, and further expand our petrochemical business. Moreover, we are working on various options for using hydrogen – for transportation as well as industrial applications. In our circular economy project, our ReOil® pilot facility recycled 100 t of plastic waste into synthetic crude oil in 2019. In 2025, we plan to recycle 200,000 t with this technology. This means we are well on the way to making synthetic crude into an economically viable product.
We were able to achieve these results above all thanks to the excellent work of our approximately 20,000 employees who work tirelessly and conscientiously to ensure the supply of energy and raw materials. More than 7,900 employees also dedicated their time and energy to protecting the environment and alleviating poverty by participating in volunteering activities like planting trees and providing food to people in need.
I am pleased that our sustainability leadership was again recognized by external rating agencies such as CDP, MSCI, ISS ESG, and Sustainalytics. They count OMV among the world’s best oil and gas companies. For the second consecutive year, we were the only Austrian company to be included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI World).
I can assure you that we will continue to put forth every effort to do business responsibly and innovatively to ensure a secure and low-carbon future. With the energy for a better life.
Rainer Seele Chief Executive Officer. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 5


Letter of the Supervisory Board. 
Dear Shareholders,
In 2019, OMV continued to underscore its strong commitment to being a responsible market player and even improved its already strong sustainability performance.
An example for a concrete activity in this area is the cooperation agreed with VERBUND last year: OMV, together with VERBUND, Austria’s main electricity company, is building Austria’s largest ground-mounted photovoltaic plant to cover 10% of the Upstream production facilities’ own electricity demand in Lower Austria. In addition, our innovative plastic-to-oil technology ReOil® is on track to become a commercially viable, industrial-scale recycling process which will contribute to the circular economy. In 2019, 100 tons of post-consumer plastic were transformed into synthetic crude.
In order to further strengthen our innovative capacity in this field, the New Energy Solutions department was set up to explore opportunities in carbon emission reduction and make a positive contribution to the energy transition.
The Supervisory Board is fully committed to OMV’s Sustainability Strategy and challenges the management along this transition path, specifically by setting the right incentives. The new Remuneration Policy that will be put to vote to the Annual General Meeting 2020 for the first time will therefore include measurable carbon emission reduction targets which will influence both the Annual Bonus and the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) payouts.
I am very pleased to report that OMV’s comprehensive approach to sustainability continues to be recognized by independent rating agencies and that OMV was again – as the only Austrian company – included in the internationally renowned Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI World) in 2019.
OMV has opted to make use of the option to prepare its mandatory consolidated non-financial disclosures as a separate consolidated non-financial report (Sustainability Report). The consolidated non-financial report that is presented pursuant to Section 96(1) of the Stock Corporation Act was subject to an independent external assurance as well as a comprehensive audit and discussion by the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board found no issues during the audit and approved this report.
Vienna, March 2020. 
For the Supervisory Board Wolfgang C. Berndt m.p. Chairman of the Supervisory Board. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 6


OMV at a Glance. 
OMV produces and markets oil and gas, innovative energy, and high-end petrochemical solutions – in a responsible way.
OMV has a balanced international Upstream portfolio, while its Downstream businesses feature European and Middle Eastern footprints. In 2019, Group sales amounted to EUR 23 bn. With a year-end market capitalization of around EUR 16.4 bn, OMV is one of Austria’s largest listed industrial companies. The majority of OMV’s roughly 20,000 employees work at its integrated European sites.
Our foundation. 
To support OMV’s business strategy and evolve our culture, we clearly articulated our OMV Foundation, which answers the questions: Why does OMV exist? What are we doing? How are we working together?
Our Purpose: The energy for a better life.
Energy is part of our lives: Conventional and alternative fuels enable mobility. Natural gas heats homes. Petrochemical products form the basis for plastics we use everywhere – from everyday products (e.g., cables and packaging material) to high-tech applications (e.g., medical consumables and materials for the automotive industry).
Behind all of these products is OMV energy: energy bringing more convenience and more comfort to life. Along the entire value chain, OMV contributes expertise, technological know-how, and innovations to improve the quality of people’s lives. Safe. Carbon-efficient. Responsible. And Profitable. Today and tomorrow.
Our Business Reason: OMV produces and markets oil and gas, innovative energy, and high-end petrochemical solutions – in a responsible way.
Oil and gas have been – and will continue to be – the backbone of the global energy supply. This is why OMV has been investing in modern technologies for greater plant efficiency, process sustainability, and product value. OMV’s innovative capacity and technological expertise safeguard energy for a better life.
Our Principles – Team Spirit, Accountability, Passion, Pioneering Spirit, and Performance – describe what we can expect from each other and how we want to work together.
Information on the OMV Strategy can be found in the Annual Report 2019.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 7


Economic performance. 
In 2019, OMV recorded a clean CCS Operating Result of EUR 3.5 bn despite the challenging market environment. This remarkable result was driven by strong results in both the Upstream and Downstream Business Segments and by strict cost discipline. In 2019, the operating cash flow amounted to EUR 4.1 bn. Following the payment of the highest dividend in OMV history, an organic free cash flow after dividends of EUR 1.3 bn was achieved, which contributed to finance major acquisitions in 2019, such as the 15% stake in the ADNOC Refining business and the 50% interest in SapuraOMV.
Clean CCS operating result 1. 
In EUR mn 2016 2017 2018 2019 1,737 1,535 3,536 2,958 2015 3,646. 
Cash flow from operating activities. 
In EUR mn 2016 2017 2018 2019 2,834 2,878 4,056 3,448 2015 4,396. 
Dividend per share 2. 
In EUR 1.00 1.20 2.00 1.50 1.75 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015. 
Reserve replacement rate. 
In % 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 44 101 135 191 180. 
Clean CCS ROACE 1. 
In % 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 8 7 11 14 13. 
Clean CCS earnings per share 1. 
In EUR 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 3.52 3.05 4.97 4.97 4.88 1 Adjusted for special items; clean CCS figures exclude fuels’ inventory holding gains/losses (CCS effects) resulting from the fuels of refineries. 2 Dividend per share 2019: as proposed by the Executive Board and confirmed by the Supervisory Board, subject to confirmation by the Annual General Meeting 2020. 
More information about OMV’s economic performance can be found in the Annual Report 2019.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 8


Our value chain. 
In the Upstream Business Segment, OMV focuses on the exploration, development, and production of oil and gas in its five core regions of Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, the North Sea, Russia, and AsiaPacific. At the end of 2019, OMV had proven reserves (1P) of 1.33 bn boe and proven and probable reserves (2P) of 2.38 bn boe. The Reserve Replacement Rate (RRR) was 135% in 2019. Daily production was 487 kboe/d in 2019 (2018: 427 kboe/d), which equals a total production of 178 mn boe. While gas production accounted for 57% of production, oil amounted to 43%.
 


Transportation and distribution. 
Industry. 
Industry. 
Filling stations and services. 
Domestic. 
Domestic. 
Storage Refining Supply. 
Pipeline Storage Pipeline. 
Onshore and offshore exploration and production. 
Downstream Oil. 
Downstream Gas. 
Upstream. 
Industry. 
Petro- chemicals. 
Gas-fired power plants. 
Filling stations and services. 
The Downstream Business Segment consists of the Downstream Oil and the Downstream Gas businesses. Downstream Oil operates three refineries in Europe: Schwechat (Austria) and Burghausen (Germany), both of which feature integrated petrochemical production, and the Petrobrazi refinery (Romania). In addition, OMV holds a 15% share in ADNOC Refining, which operates the world-class Ruwais refinery in the United Arab Emirates, among other assets. Globally OMV’s total annual processing capacity amounts to 24.9 mn t. The total refined product sales were 20.94 mn t in 2019 (2018: 20.26 mn t). The retail network consists of around 2,100 filling stations in ten countries with a strong multi-brand market portfolio. Furthermore, OMV holds a 36% interest in Borealis, one of the world’s largest plastics producers. Borealis is fully committed to a circular economy for plastics and plastics recycling.
Downstream together with Upstream finished an Oil Business Continuity Plan for Austria, which ensures the supply to customers on the Austrian market in case of refinery downtime.
In Downstream Gas, the natural gas sales volume was 136.7 TWh in 2019 (2018: 113.8 TWh). OMV owns gas storage facilities with a capacity of 30 TWh and a 51% share in Gas Connect Austria, which operates a 900 km natural gas pipeline network. The Central European Gas Hub (CEGH), in which OMV holds a 65% share is a wellestablished gas-trading platform. The node in Baumgarten (Austria) is Central Europe’s largest entry and distribution point for Russian gas. In addition, OMV operates a gasfired power plant in Romania.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 9


Upstream business segment. 
Annual production per country 2019 (In kboe/d)
Austria Bulgaria Kazakhstan Romania. 
Norway Kurdistan Region of Iraq Libya Tunisia United Arab Emirates Yemen. 
Australia Malaysia1 New Zealand. 
New Zealand 42. 
Kazakhstan 6. 
Romania 145 5. 
Yemen. 
Libya 30. 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq 9. 
Russia 100 4 Tunisia. 
Austria. 
Bulgaria Exploration only 24. 
Norway 87. 
Malaysia1. 
United Arab Emirates 22. 
Central and Eastern Europe North Sea Middle East and Africa Asia-Pacific Russia 13. 
Australia. 
Exploration only 1 On January 31, 2019, OMV acquired a 50% interest in SapuraOMV Upstream Sdn. Bhd. In addition to the Malaysian footprint, SapuraOMV Upstream has exploration assets in. 
New Zealand, Australia, and Mexico.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 10


Downstream business segment. 
Downstream presence in 2019. 
Downstream Oil & Gas market. 
Austria Germany Hungary Romania. 
Downstream Oil market. 
Downstream Gas market. 
Belgium Netherlands Turkey. 
Bulgaria Czech Republic Moldova Serbia Slovakia Slovenia United Arab Emirates 300 428 121 62 94. 
Equity gas. 
OMV refineries. 
Number of filling stations. 
Gas pipelines. 
LNG terminal. 
Gas-fired power plant. 
Gas storage 556 81 140 94 199. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 11


Sustainability Framework. 
OMV aims to provide a secure supply of affordable energy for the sustainable development of society and the economy while respecting the environment. Conducting business sustainably is crucial for OMV in creating and protecting value in the long term, in building trusting partnerships, and in attracting customers as well as the best suppliers, investors, and employees.
OMV delivers energy responsibly to improve people’s lives. Sustainability for OMV means creating long-term value for our customers and shareholders by being innovative and an employer of choice. We conduct our business in a responsible way, respecting the environment and adding value to the societies in which we operate.
Health, Safety, Security, and Environment. 
Business Principles and Social Responsibility. 
Carbon Efficiency. 
Innovation Employees. 
Sustainability strategy. 
Growing demand for energy and accelerating climate change pose immense challenges for the energy sector. The key lies in finding the balance between climate protection efforts, affordable energy, and reliable supply. The economy needs alternative energy systems as well as economically viable and scalable technologies to satisfy the growing demand for energy. Here, OMV will make a significant contribution to the sustainable energy supply for future generations. To realize its mission of providing energy for a better life, OMV is committed to exploring the full potential of oil and gas at its best by following a responsible approach in producing, processing, and marketing oil and gas and petrochemical products. OMV’s responsible approach to business stipulates the prevention and mitigation of sustainability risks associated with OMV’s activities.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 12


We also aim to seize the opportunities presented by taking a sustainable approach to business. The 15 measurable targets of the Sustainability Strategy 2025 define the primary direction of OMV’s path to sustainability in the very near future. The targets are set in the five focus areas: Health, Safety, Security, and Environment (HSSE); Carbon Efficiency; Innovation; Employees; Business Principles and Social Responsibility. The Sustainability Strategy 2025 constitutes an integral part of the Corporate Strategy 2025 and is the sustainable component of OMV’s business ambitions.
The Sustainability Strategy’s targets relating to OMV’s operations and products are aligned with the production, sales, and product portfolio plans set by the Corporate Strategy. Thus, for example, reducing the carbon intensity of the product portfolio is based on the planned increase in the share of natural gas and the increased weight of petrochemicals, where oil is used as a raw material rather than fuel. The reduction of the carbon intensity of operations is based on the plan to optimize production through innovative technical measures, to further enhance the energy efficiency of operations, and to eliminate routine flaring and venting. The targets related to focus areas that are linked to the social dimension of sustainability – HSSE, Employees, Business Principles and Social Responsibility – round out OMV’s mission as a responsible business player. In line with our approach to shaping the future of energy in a sustainable way, OMV intends to allocate significant resources to the implementation of the Sustainability Strategy 2025. For example, up to EUR 500 mn will be invested by 2025 in innovative energy solutions such as ReOil® and Co-Processing. (For more information on ReOil® and Co-Processing, see Innovation.)
In order to step up our development of low-carbon business solutions and technologies, we set up a New Energy Solutions team in 2019. This initially meant consolidating and centrally bundling responsibility for OMV’s portfolio of new energy solutions in one department to harmonize results across divisions in the best interests of OMV as a whole. These activities include developing the market for gas-powered vehicles as well as building Austria’s largest photovoltaic plant with the power company VERBUND. The latter project will meet 10% of the energy needs of our Upstream production facilities in Austria and reduce our CO2 emissions by 12,000 t per year.
The mission of the team is to develop and implement lowand zero-carbon energy solutions, i.e., measures for net carbon reduction and new low- and zero-carbon business opportunities. In addition, the team’s aim is to find largescale solutions to reduce, reuse, or store greenhouse gas emissions. A review of carbon efficiency targets was launched with the aim of setting more ambitious targets. A comprehensive strategy for the New Energy Solutions activities is being prepared, which will be communicated in 2020. (For more details, see Sustainability governance.)
Summary of OMV response to combat climate change. 
For decades, OMV has pledged to do business economically, ecologically and socially sustainably. We will continue to uphold this commitment as it is the only way to protect and preserve security and prosperity in the long term. More and more people need more and more energy. At the same time, the planet is getting warmer and warmer, making climate protection increasingly important. We are therefore transforming our business model step by step with the aim of reducing the carbon footprint of the Company.
We see oil as a valuable raw material, which should not be burned. We see gas as well as hydrogen as enablers of the energy transition towards a low-carbon energy system.
To achieve this, we draw on our strengths and use many levers to reduce the CO2 concentration in the atmosphere:
OMV takes climate action in its operations, product and service portfolio, innovations and R&D activities, working environment, and social investments.
Actions in all areas are needed to combat climate change. Further details about all measures are provided in the respective focus areas.
With the help of new technologies, we are consistently reducing the CO2 emissions of our refineries and our oil and gas production.
We are increasing the proportion of gas in our total production and contributing to a significant reduction in CO2 emissions by replacing coal with gas as energy source.
We refine oil into high-quality petrochemical products instead of burning it to generate energy.
We recycle biogenic and plastic waste into valuable raw materials and are investing EUR 500 mn in these innovations, enabling a circular economy.
We are exploring ways to store CO2 in underground storage facilities and to reuse CO2 as a raw material for chemical products.
We are working on economically viable hydrogen solutions for industry and mobility.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 13


Sustainability commitments and targets. 
Health, Safety, Security, and Environment (HSSE)
Commitments. 
Targets 2025 Status 2019 Milestones 2020. 
Fatalities. 
Lost-Time Injury Rate (LTIR)
Process safety. 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) supported. 
Find out more about this material focus area.
Health, safety, security, and protection of the environment have the highest priority in all activities.
Proactive risk management is essential for realizing OMV’s HSSE Vision of “ZERO harm – NO losses.” achieve zero work-related fatalities zero work-related fatalities zero work-related fatalities stabilize at below 0.30 (per 1 million hours worked) 0.34 (per 1 million hours worked) 0.34 (per 1 million hours worked) keep leading position in Process Safety Event Rate leading position maintained keep leading position. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 14


Carbon Efficiency. 
Commitments. 
Targets 2025 Status 2019 Milestones 2020. 
Carbon intensity of operations1. 
Carbon intensity of product portfolio2. 
Flaring. 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) supported. 
Find out more about this material focus area.
OMV focuses on improving the carbon efficiency of its operations and product portfolio.
OMV is fully committed to acting on climate change mitigation and responsible resource management.
reduce by 19% by 2025 (vs. 2010) –22% vs. 2010 achieved set new target as initial 2025 target achieved ahead of schedule reduce by 4% by 2025 (vs. 2010) −4% vs. 2010 achieved set new target as initial 2025 target achieved ahead of schedule achieve zero routine flaring and venting of associated gas by 2030 –37% in Upstream vs. 20103 continue with ongoing flaring and venting reduction projects 1 CO2 equivalent emissions produced to generate a certain business output using the following business-specific metric ‒ Upstream: t CO2 equivalent/toe produced, refineries: t. 
CO2 equivalent/t throughput, power: t CO2 equivalent/MWh produced ‒ consolidated into an OMV Group Carbon Intensity Operations Index, based on weighted average of the business segments’ carbon intensity 2 The carbon intensity of OMV’s product portfolio measures the CO₂ equivalent emissions generated by the use of OMV’s products sold to third parties in t CO₂ equivalent/toe sold.
3 Total (including non-routine) flaring and venting.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 15


Innovation. 
Commitments. 
Targets 2025 Status 2019 Milestones 2020. 
ReOil®
Co-Processing. 
Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR)
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) supported. 
Find out more about this material focus area.
OMV’s innovation efforts focus on optimizing production, exploring high-end petrochemical solutions, developing innovative energy solutions, and embracing digital technologies.
Innovation is facilitated by investment and partnerships in the research and development of innovative technological solutions.
OMV will invest EUR 500 mn in innovative energy solutions by 2025.
develop ReOil® into a commercially viable, industrialscale process (unit size of ~200,000 t per year) 100 t of post-consumer plastic transformed into synthetic crude; 40 days of continued production at the ReOil® plant 250 t of post-consumer plastic transformed into synthetic crude; further testing at pilot plant in order to support the engineering process of the scale-up to the next-level ReOil® demo plant raise the share of sustainable feedstock co-processed in the refineries to ~200,000 t per year by 2025. 
Process Design Package finalized for Schwechat refinery; process studies finalized for Petrobrazi refinery. 
For purposes of gaining further experience and rolling out Co‑Processing at OMV Petrom, additional test runs are planned at the Petrobrazi refinery in Romania in 2020 (3,000 t of biogenic feedstock), to be accompanied by final product quality assurance tests in the laboratory.
increase the recovery factor in the CEE region in selected fields by 5–15 percentage points by 2025 through innovative Enhanced Oil Recovery methods pilot EOR project started in Romania in 2019; result of pilot project in Austria: additional production of about 100 kboe in 2019 finalize the pilot EOR project in Romania; further mature the full field implementation project in two Matzen field reservoirs. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 16


Employees. 
Commitments. 
Targets 2025 Status 2019 Milestones 2020. 
Gender diversity. 
International diversity. 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) supported. 
Find out more about this material focus area.
OMV is committed to building and retaining a talented, expert team for international and integrated growth.
OMV is committed to its diversity strategy with a focus on gender and internationality.
increase share of women at management level4 to 25% by 2025 19.6% women at management level in 2019 increased focus on succession planning, recruitment processes, additional female leadership programs, as well as initiatives to promote a diversity culture keep high share of executives with international experience5 at 75% 77% executives with international experience in 2019 maintain the high share of executives with international experience through succession planning, mobility, and recruitment processes 4 Management level: executives and advanced career level 5 Equal to or greater than three years of living and working abroad. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 17


Business Principles and Social Responsibility. 
Commitments. 
Targets 2025 Status 2019 Milestones 2020. 
Business ethics. 
Local communities. 
Human rights. 
Supply chain. 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) supported. 
Find out more about this material focus area.
OMV strives to uphold equally high ethical standards at all locations.
OMV is a signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, is fully committed to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and aims to contribute to the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
promote awareness of ethical values and principles: conduct in-person or online business ethics training for all employees 514 employees trained in person in 2019; 85% of defined target group for the training cycle 2018–2020; in addition, 11,144 employees absolved the online training on business ethics reach 90% of defined target group for training cycle 2018–2020 assess Community Grievance Mechanism of all sites against UN Effectiveness Criteria6 by 2025 5 out of 10 sites in scope assessed assess two additional sites in 2020 conduct human rights trainings for all employees exposed to human rights risks7 by 2025 9,241 employees trained (47% of total employees) by end of 2019; 82% of target group trained 90% of target group trained increase the number of supplier audits covering sustainability elements to >20 per year by 2025 11 supplier audits conducted conduct >10 supplier audits 6 Legitimate, accessible, predictable, equitable, transparent, rights-compatible, a source of continuous learning, based on engagement and dialogue 7 654 employees in corporate functions managing human rights risks as well as the corresponding functions in countries with elevated human rights risks. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 18


Sustainability governance. 
Sustainability-related topics (including issues relating to climate change mitigation) are fully integrated into the overall governance structure of the Company. These topics have the same weight as any other business consideration and, following the Company’s responsible approach to business, are integrated into the daily operation and management processes of the Company.
Supervisory Board. 
Presidential and Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Portfolio and Project Committee. 
Sustainability & Reporting. 
Executive Board. 
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Upstream Operations. 
Officer, Chief Downstream Operations Officer, Chief Marketing Officer. 
Business and other. 
Group functions Leadership team. 
Risk Committee. 
Group functions responsible for sustainability focus areas. 
Network of functional experts in the business units/countries and local management team with topic accountability. 
Corporate. 
Affairs. 
Relationships with and development of local communities; human rights. 
HSSE & NES Human. 
Resources. 
Compliance Procurement. 
Health-, Safety-, Security-, and Environmentrelated topics; carbon and energy efficiency of opera- tions; innovation. 
Employees: development and diversity. 
Compliance with business ethics and anti- corruption policies. 
Supplier compliance with sustainable supply chain requirements. 
Strategic Planning &
Projects. 
Carbon efficiency of product portfolio. 
In the diagram, we map the coverage of the five OMV Sustainability Strategy focus areas (HSSE, Carbon Efficiency, Innovation, Employees, Business Principles and Social Responsibility) by corresponding Group functions. Group functions continuously develop and steer the processes relevant to the implementation of activities relating to social and environmental performance, and propose an action plan to functional experts in related business units on the ground. The functional experts remain in continuous communication regarding progress on the planned implementation. Each Group function reports directly to the Executive Board on the relevant social and environmental issues. They include reporting on progress in the implementation of the Sustainability Strategy targets, presenting important events with regard to the material topics, and submitting for approval the implementation of sustainability initiatives.
In 2019, we expanded the HSSE function to HSSE & New Energy Solutions (NES). HSSE & NES is made up of the HSSE, Carbon Management, NES Scouting & Portfolio Management, and New Energy Technology Development & Implementation departments. HSSE & NES manages the following climate-change-related issues:
Making a meaningful transition to low-emission technologies in order to reduce the carbon footprint of our existing business and to develop innovative energy solutions. 
Consolidating responsibility for OMV’s portfolio of new energy solutions in one central location to achieve harmonized, cross-divisional results. 
Ensuring close cooperation and joint efforts between Corporate and the business divisions in developing the most promising proposals for efficient carbon reduction. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 19


The Business and Other Group Functions leadership team has a general overview and control over the implementation of all Company functions on the ground, and ensures that environmental and social aspects are integrated into the business activities. The Executive Board reports to the Supervisory Board on a regular and ad-hoc basis. Members of the leadership team also comprise the Risk Committee, chaired by the CFO, which ensures that material financial and non-financial risks are properly identified and managed. (For more information on the risk management process, see the Annual Report 2019 under Risk Management.)
The Executive Board is the highest managing body of the Company. The Supervisory Board appoints members of the Executive Board, monitors and supervises its decisions, and advises the Executive Board on strategy development. The Executive Board approves the Sustain- ability Strategy as part of the Corporate Strategy and is accountable to the Supervisory Board for its implementation. (For more information on the functions and composition of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board, see the Annual Report 2019 under Consolidated Corporate Governance Report.)
The Supervisory Board appoints among its members qualified expert committees that support the decision-making of the Supervisory Board. The Remuneration Committee is authorized to determine the Executive Board’s remuneration, including the structure of the remuneration system and the actual target achievement. The Executive Board remuneration consists of fixed and variable remuneration elements. The variable remuneration – the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and the annual bonus – includes performance criteria related to the Company’s sustainability performance. The sustainability multiplier as part of the annual bonus is determined at the discretion of the Supervisory Board based on a predefined set of criteria that are selected due to their importance for OMV’s sustainability performance.
X X = 
Target. 
Annual Bonus. 
Cash Bonus (2/3)
Financial and operational target achievement. 
Sustainability multiplier (0.8 - 1.2)
Financial targets modifier. 
Max. 180% of. 
Target Annual Bonus. 
Equity Deferral (1/3)
Modifiers. 
These criteria include, but are not limited to, the Lost-Time Injury Rate, the number of work-related fatalities of employees and contractors, the number and volume of oil spills, and the Reserve Replacement Rate. The LTIP includes a Health, Safety, Security, or Environmental (HSSE) malus that may be applied to the overall target achievement. In situations where a severe HSSE breach has occurred, the Supervisory Board can reexamine the level of the LTIP payout and, depending on the extent of the infraction, reduce it at its reasonable discretion, if necessary to zero. An external audit of the actual target achievement is performed by the Company’s Group auditor, and the results are communicated to the Remuneration Committee and Supervisory Board. More details on the remuneration structure and the complete list of performance criteria are provided in the Annual Report.
The Sustainability & Reporting department is part of Corporate Affairs and has a Group-wide coordination function. It is responsible for steering, providing advice on, and reporting on sustainability-related topics to internal and external stakeholders. Sustainability & Reporting steers and coordinates the development and the implementation of the Sustainability Strategy.
With the support of external sustainability experts, OMV evaluated sustainability maturity to fulfill the reporting recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Based on this evaluation, we further enhanced our disclosure of climate-related financial issues in line with the TCFD recommendations.
We consult with internal and external stakeholders through various engagement channels across different levels of the governance structure. Additional information on the engagement channels is provided in the Stakeholders’ Engagement Details.
The Investor Relations department coordinates the communication of OMV’s sustainability performance and strategy at the request of socially responsible investors (SRIs) with the Sustainability & Reporting department.
Promoting a “startup culture” to create the right environment and encourage colleagues to come up with ideas aimed at reducing OMV’s environmental footprint. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 20


OMV presented the newly developed SRI capital market story at an ESG/SRI conference in Paris and engaged with investors from the investor initiative “Climate Action 100+” among others. The SRI presentation is available at: https://www.omv.com/en/roadshows-and-conferences. 
In 2019, senior management performed a half-year review of the progress in relation to the Sustainability Strategy targets and the status of the initiatives. The status of the Sustainability Strategy targets and a deep dive into carbon management were discussed in a meeting with Supervisory Board, Executive Board and senior management representatives. The Executive Board and Supervisory Board approved the Company’s Sustainability Report.
Our commitment to international sustainable development standards. 
OMV is a signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and is fully committed to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. OMV adheres to the recommendations of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises – the only government-supported international instrument for responsible business conduct with an integrated grievance mechanism. The recommendations relate mainly to information disclosure, human rights, employment, environment, and anti-corruption efforts.
We continue to support the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through our projects and initiatives. The key SDGs supported by OMV through its activities are SDG 7 – Affordable and clean energy, SDG 13 – Climate action, SDG 8 – Decent work and economic growth, and SDG 16 – Peace, justice, and strong institutions.
OMV recognizes that climate change is one of the most important global challenges and acknowledges the goals set forth by the Paris Climate Change Agreement and the EU climate targets. As part of our carbon strategy, we have endorsed the international World Bank initiative “Zero routine flaring by 2030” to end the routine flaring and venting of associated gas during oil production by 2030.
In line with the Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), we disclose, where possible, climate-change-related considerations in the operational elements of governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. The TCFD Index, published as an annex to this report, outlines disclosures throughout this report that illustrate our reporting in accordance with TCFD Recommendations. OMV is a supporter of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 21


Risks and opportunities management. 
Like the oil and gas industry as a whole, OMV is exposed to a variety of risks – including market and financial risks as well as operational and strategic risks. The Group’s risk management processes focus on identification, analysis, and evaluation of such risks and their impact on the Group’s financial stability and profitability as well as on their impact on sustainability matters. The objective of these activities is to actively manage risks in the context of the Group’s risk appetite and defined risk tolerance levels.
For OMV, a risk represents uncertainty regarding Company objectives measured by combining the likelihood or frequency of an event and its consequences, which can result in opportunities or threats to the success of the Company’s sustainable business performance.8. 
Mapping our sustainability risks. 
When evaluating risks, OMV also assesses any relevant impact OMV activities might have on Environment, Society, and Governance (ESG). We have summarized the potential risks, mitigation measures, and net risks and opportunities of OMV activities, structured by our material topics and related NaDiVeG concerns in the table below. Materiality in this context is defined as issues having a potentially significant impact on the environment or society. For further details on our materiality analysis, see Reporting on materiality.
Material Topic Risk description1 Mitigation measures Effect description2. 
GHG emissions from operations (NaDiVeG: Environmental concerns)
Risk of imbalance between certificates allocated and emissions volumes required by the Company’s activities, resulting in higher costs; generated by the uncertainties about allowance demand and abatement costs. 
Risk of decarbonization policies forcing OMV to operate on a net carbonneutral basis, triggered by the enforcement of the Paris Climate Change Agreement. 
For more details, see Carbon Efficiency of operations. 
OMV's 2019 total Scope 1 GHG emissions of 10.63 t CO2 equivalent increased the CO2 concentration in the atmosphere by about 0.0062 ppm.
Employment and skill development (NaDiVeG: Respect for human rights, Employment & social concerns)
Changes in the law might affect international assignments (global mobility-related risk)
Inability to comply with complex legislation in various countries. 
For more details, see Management of employment and skills development. 
No relevant impact on environment or society. 
Developing and implementing a forwardlooking OMV Carbon Trading Strategy. 
Reducing GHG emissions in OMV’s carbonintensive facilities by implementing energy efficiency improvements and technology changes. 
Phasing out routine flaring and venting as a major contributor to reduce GHG emissions. 
Boosting energy efficiency and reducing internal fuel consumption by increasing renewable energy supplies, such as the Company’s own photovoltaic plants. 
Constant monitoring of regulations related to immigration and specific labor markets to anticipate any related risks. 
Obtaining expert advice from external consultants and specialized relocation agencies with in-depth market expertise 8 The Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (NaDiVeG) defines risk as a potential negative effect on sustainability originating from the company’s operations, its supply chain, or its products/services.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 22


Material Topic Risk description1 Mitigation measures Effect description2. 
Energy efficiency (NaDiVeG: Environmental concerns)
Risks of failing to implement energy efficiency projects due to finances or insufficient resources could keep energy consumption at high levels. 
For more details, see Energy efficiency. 
OMV's 2019 total Scope 1 GHG emissions of 10.63 t CO2 equivalent increased the CO2 concentration in the atmosphere by about 0.0062 ppm.
Environmental compliance (NaDiVeG: Environmental concerns)
Non-compliance with environmental and water legislation, or specific internal rules and regulations. 
For more details, see Management of Environmental Compliance. 
No relevant impact on environment or society. 
Health, safety & security (NaDiVeG: Employment & social concerns)
Risk drivers such as integrity failure or unsafe process safety conditions leading to business interruptions, pollution, accidents involving employees, and deterioration of the Company’s reputation. 
For more details, see Health, safety & security. 
The impact on environment or society is already described in the risk description.
Local communities (NaDiVeG: Respect for human rights, Employment & social concerns)
Not fulfilling the expectations of local communities with regards to economic benefits. 
Deterioration in occupational health and safety in countries where local legislation is less strict. 
For more details, see Community relations and development. 
The impact is significantly reduced as OMV applies the same international standards across all the countries where OMV operates.
Low-carbon products and innovation (NaDiVeG: Environmental concerns)
Opportunities unlocked by decarbonization policies forcing OMV to operate and produce fuels on a net carbonneutral basis. 
Risk that demand for refined fuels may drop due to less carbon-intense substitute products coming to market. 
For more details, see Carbon Efficiency of the product portfolio. 
OMV’s total GHG emissions from all activities 2019 onward based on current product portfolio and current proven/probable reserves (assuming all of the reserves are produced and burned) amount to estimated 2.17 Gt CO2 equivalent, which represents around 0.5% of the total remaining global carbon budget of about 420 Gt CO2 equivalent. This would increase the atmospheric CO2 concentration by about 0.12 ppm.
Spills management (NaDiVeG: Environmental concerns)
Loss of integrity of a pipeline caused by an unsafe condition resulting in a major accident offshore or onshore (explosion, major fire, major oil spill)
For more details, see Spills management. 
The impact on environment or society is already described in the risk description.
ISO 50001 certifications for Refining and some Upstream assets. 
Legal compliance register. 
Legal audits. 
Trainings. 
Close collaboration with regulators. 
CAPEX allocation for legal compliance projects. 
Audits. 
Risk awareness campaign. 
Lessons learned (internal incidents or industry experience)
Preventive maintenance. 
Social Impact Assessment (SIA), including free and prior informed consultation with and consent of local stakeholders. 
Stakeholder engagement plans. 
Community grievance mechanisms. 
Community investments. 
Identifying and developing new business opportunities based on low-/zero-carbon product portfolio by the newly created New Energy Solutions department. 
Carbon reduction targets integrated into Executive Board remuneration. 
Strong focus on natural gas sales and petrochemical sales increase. 
Improving integrity through old pipeline/old facilities replacement programs preventive maintenance and corrosion programs. 
Oil spill response plans and emergency preparedness plans. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 23


Material Topic Risk description1 Mitigation measures Effect description2. 
Supply chain (NaDiVeG: Respect for human rights, Employment & social concerns)
Risk of poor labor practices in supply management, e.g., failure to pay decent wages in the supply chain (human rights)
Supplier pays wages below standards established by international human rights bodies. 
For more details, see Supply chain. 
The impact is significantly reduced as OMV applies the same international standards across all the countries where OMV operates and complies with minimum local legislation.
Water management (NaDiVeG: Environmental concerns)
Periods of low or no precipitation would lead to inability to access water for normal operations (internal consumption) in areas of low water availability. 
For more details, see Water management. 
The impact on environment or society is already described in the risk event.
1 A risk represents the uncertainty that OMV will not meet its objectives. This is measured by combining the likelihood or frequency of an event and its consequences, which can result in opportunities for benefit (upside) or threats to success (downside).
2 Effects refer to positive and negative impacts on environment and society arising from the regular business model or from unplanned events that should not occur during regular operating activities.
Training for employees (focus on high-risk countries)
Human Rights Country Entry Check before launching operations in a country as well as regular human rights assessments in our countries of operations. 
HSSE contractor management, considering human rights aspects (including labor rights) in pre-qualification and auditing phase. 
ESG supplier assessments. 
Code of Conduct including labor rights. 
Improving integrity through old water pipeline/facilities replacement programs. 
Preventive maintenance. 
Water management plans. 
Reduced water consumption and water efficiency improvements. 
Oil spill response plans and emergency preparedness plans in case of spill event affecting water bodies. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 24


Enterprise-wide risk management. 
Non-financial and financial risks are regularly identified, assessed, and reported through the Group-wide Enterprise-Wide Risk Management (EWRM) process.
The main purpose of the OMV Group’s EWRM process is to deliver value through risk-based management and decision-making. The OMV Group is constantly enhancing the EWRM process based on internal and external requirements. The process is facilitated by a Group-wide IT system supporting the established individual process steps, guided by the ISO 31000 risk management framework.
The Executive Board is responsible for risk oversight, ensuring that management has put in place a rigorous process for identifying, prioritizing, managing, and monitoring the critical risks affecting the Company. The Executive Board sets, communicates, and implements our risk management culture throughout the OMV Group.
A cross-functional committee chaired by the OMV Group CFO with members of OMV Group’s senior management – the Risk Committee – ensures that the EWRM process effectively captures and manages material risks across the OMV Group.
The Risk Committee assists and advises the Executive Board on all aspects of financial, operational, and strategic risks (irrespective of their financial or non-financial dimensions). It also provides assurance to the Executive Board that the OMV Group’s risk management process is supported with the appropriate tools, policies, and procedures and that risks are identified, measured, and managed in line with the Group’s policies and risk appetite.
The role of the Risk Committee is to. 
The Risk Committee meets at least four times a year, ensuring that risk awareness and prevention are deeply integrated into decision-making processes. The Committee validates the key non-financial and financial risks identified with respect to OMV’s medium- and long-term objectives.
In addition to including risks and opportunities in midterm planning at OMV, we believe that creating a risk-aware culture throughout the organization, where everyone is aware of the risks related to their jobs and implements risk management practices on a daily basis, is the most effective way to avoid potentially negative effects, while embracing the opportunities that may arise. To this end, our comprehensive Enterprise-Wide Risk Management (EWRM) program is led by senior management and cascades to every employee of the Company.
Risk management process. 
The risk management process combines an intensive bottom-up and top-down approach, with every single employee responsible for implementing the most appropriate mitigation strategies for the risks within their sphere of responsibilities. Risks are identified in the bottom-up process during day-to-day business at asset level. Depart- ensure that effective risk governance is in place and that regular reviews and updates are based on a best practice approach; support OMV’s processes for developing its risk appetite and allocating capital and limits across the business; validate the key non-financial and financial risks identified with respect to OMV’s medium- and longterm objectives, considering the following risk categories according to OMV’s risk taxonomy: operational risks (including all risks related to physical assets, production risks, project risks, personnel risks, IT risks, HSSE, climate change, and regulatory/ compliance risks), strategic risks (arising, for example, from changes in technology, climate change, risks to reputation, or political uncertainties), and financial risks, including market price risks and foreign exchange risks; review the Group Risk Report and define the overall risk landscape for final submission to the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee; evaluate risk mitigation measures for effectiveness and timely implementation to address major risks and recommend further actions to the Executive Board when risk tolerance levels are exceeded; promote a risk awareness culture within the Company.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 25


ment heads are responsible for initiating the risk analysis, which includes selection of the appropriate risk identification techniques. These include not only interviews, workshops, surveys, and analyses of historical losses, but also information on risks documented in risk registers or loss databases. In particular, environmental risks are identified by using approaches such as a standardized environmental risk assessment methodology applying a double materiality approach whenever possible. Risk coordinators and subject-matter experts assist with risk identification. Such risks are then analyzed against a medium-term horizon of three years, including their possible quantitative impact as a deviation of cash flow from the midterm plan and the likelihood of such an impact. Heat maps or risk matrices are used to support the assessment process and serve to identify probability ranges and the related consequences if risks were to materialize.
The top-down risks are analyzed against a longer time horizon of up to seven years and beyond (e.g., in accordance with the life of a project or of a field). With respect to climate change, risks and opportunities include both acute and chronic physical risks, regulatory risk, technology risk, reputational risk, and new market opportunities arising in the long term.
In order to identify such risks, we continuously monitor OMV’s internal and external environment and conduct interviews with senior management, subject-matter experts, and Executive Board members. This process complements the bottom-up approach and captures the risks inherent in the strategy. We collect information on root causes, consequences, corresponding risk mitigation actions and their effectiveness, and changes in internal and external factors influencing likelihood. These are assessed in working sessions with senior management and subject-matter experts. As part of the Risk Report, this analysis is discussed at the OMV Executive Board level and presented to the OMV Audit Committee.
All risks with risk ratings exceeding a certain threshold at Group level are included in the Group Risk Report and are considered to be substantive irrespective of their probability. However, the threshold can vary depending on the management focus for that specific risk management measure. In addition, risks are considered to be substantive if they are seen as such by relevant stakeholders, such as local communities, governmental authorities, employees, or suppliers, even when the financial impact is not significant. For further information on engagement with relevant stakeholders, see Stakeholder Engagement Details.
Bottom-up and top-down perspectives are combined to provide a comprehensive risk profile of the organization, which is taken into consideration when the OMV strategy is developed or updated.
The formal process (“Risk Run”) of collecting risk information happens twice per year. The identified risks are aggregated and ranked depending on their impact on our business and then presented to the Risk Committee for review. The short- and long-term impact of risks and opportunities related to climate change are a special focus topic for the Risk Committee in 2020.
The OMV climate change risk management approach aims to meet the TCFD recommendations as well as the double materiality perspective proposed by the EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive. This new approach is being implemented gradually throughout the organization. Climate change risks are growing in importance in light of the oil and gas industry’s significant direct impact.
Risk taxonomy. 
Paying attention to every single risk makes risk management a holistic process. We use common risk terminology and language across OMV in order to facilitate effective risk communication. Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) risks, which specifically consider the emerging topic of climate change, are a key element in the OMV taxonomy.
The full spectrum of risks relating to OMV’s business, including economic, environmental, and social issues, is analyzed using either a semi-qualitative or quantitative approach and documented in a centralized risk repository. The resulting corporate risk profile provides a holistic view of issues that could affect Company performance in the medium and long term. The profile is therefore integrated into the decision-making process.
According to the OMV risk taxonomy, the following risk categories are considered:
For reporting purposes, this taxonomy is mapped to various other risk classifications such as NaDiVeG and TCFD.
Financial risks, including market price risks and foreign exchange risks. 
Operational risks, including all risks related to physical assets, production risks, project risks, personnel risks, IT risks, HSSE, climate change, and regulatory/compliance risks. 
Strategic risks arising, for example, from changes in technology, climate change, risks to reputation, or political uncertainties. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 26


Financial risk management. 
Market price and financial risks arise from volatility in the prices of commodities and include market price risks arising from European Emission Allowances, foreign exchange (FX) rates, and interest rates. Market price risk is monitored and analyzed centrally in respect of its potential cash flow impact using a specific risk analysis model that considers portfolio effects. Such risks also cover the impact of volatile prices for (European) Emission Allowances, where typical mitigation activities like spot, forward, or futures transactions are applied to ensure a balanced position of emission allowances by selling the surplus or covering the gap.
Operational risk management. 
The nature of OMV’s business operations exposes the Group to various Health, Safety, Security, and Environment (HSSE) risks. Such risks include the potential impact from natural catastrophes as well as process safety and personal security events. Other operational risks comprise risks related to the delivery of capital projects or legal/regulatory non-compliance. All operational risks are identified, analyzed, monitored, and mitigated following the Group’s defined risk management process.
OMV focuses particularly on five Sustainability Strategy areas: HSSE; Carbon Efficiency; Innovation; Employees; Business Principles and Social Responsibility. OMV Executive Board members regularly (at least quarterly) discuss current and upcoming environmental, climate, and energyrelated policies and regulations; related developments in the fuels and gas market; the financial implications of carbon emissions trading obligations; the status of innovation project implementation; and progress on achieving sustainability-related targets. OMV focuses on assessing the potential vulnerabilities of the Company to climate change (e.g., water scarcity, droughts, floods, and landslides), the impact of the Company on the environment, and the mitigation actions that will ensure a proper transition to a low-carbon environment (reduction of carbon emissions, compliance with new regulatory requirements, etc.).
Strategic risks. 
OMV regularly evaluates the Group’s exposure to climatechange-related risks in addition to the market price risk from European Emission Allowances. Such risks comprise the potential impact of acute or chronic events, such as more frequent extreme weather events or systemic changes to our business model due to a changing legal framework or substitution of OMV’s products due to changing consumer behavior. OMV recognizes climate change as a key global challenge. We thus integrate the related risks and opportunities into the development of the Company’s business strategy.
The following emerging climate-change-related risks were identified:
Legal risk linked to compliance and the cost of compliance with current regulations related to climate change, such as the EU’s emissions trading legislation. 
Emerging climate-change-related regulations aimed at the decarbonization of economic activities, such as future emissions trading programs, CO2 limits for cars, and legal controls on routine flaring and venting9. 
Reduction in the cost of alternative energies leading to a competitive advantage for low-carbon fuels. 
Shift in consumer and investor preferences toward products and investments strongly aligned with the energy transition and offering climate change mitigation solutions. 
Chronic risks for OMV assets in various locations affected by climate change. 
For more information on climate change risk management, see Carbon Efficiency. Additional information on major financial and non-financial risks is included in the Annual Report 2019 under Risk Management.
9 For example, in an impact analysis we assumed that assets with routine flaring in Romania and Tunisia were temporarily forced to cease production due to regulations. In this scenario, which we consider to be very unlikely, a six-month stoppage would result in an estimated revenue loss of EUR 525 mn, representing around 3% of OMV Group revenues (based on 2018 revenues for crude oil production facilities in Tunisia and Romania, which currently conduct routine flaring).
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 27


Stakeholder map. 
OMV is committed to stakeholder engagement and convinced that mutual respect, transparent behavior, and open dialogue are the best foundations for a good relationship with the various stakeholders we interact with. In our stakeholder engagement approach, we identify and manage relationships with persons, groups, or organizations who might be impacted by our activities or who may have an impact on our business.
Customers. 
Scientific institutions. 
Society. 
Governmental authorities. 
Peer companies. 
NGOs/NPOs Media. 
Capital market participants. 
Employees. 
Suppliers and contractors. 
Industry associations/ networks. 
See Stakeholders’ Engagement Details for more detailed information on stakeholders and the mechanisms for dialogue and inclusion of their views in OMV’s approach.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 28


Reporting on materiality. 
OMV identifies material content for the Sustainability Report in an extensive and structured process of consultation with the Company’s external and internal stakeholders.
The full-scale process of consultation and analysis is repeated every three years, with the most recent one taking place in 2017. A detailed description of the materiality identification process is published separately on OMV’s website. In 2019, we reviewed highly material topics identified previously against best industry practices, and also in light of the Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) performance issues of interest to ESG rating agen- cies and socially responsible investors. In light of the reporting requirements of the Austrian Nachhaltigkeitsund Diversitätsverbesserungsgesetz (Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act; NaDiVeG) and given the diversity-related targets of the OMV Sustainability Strategy 2025, the topic of diversity was defined as material. Full disclosure is provided as required by the GRI.
Biodiversity. 
Product responsibility. 
Waste management. 
Secure energy and product supply. 
Economic performance. 
IT security. 
Other topics reported additionally that are important for OMV. 
Health, safety & security. 
Local communities. 
Low-carbon. 
Products. 
Employment and skills development. 
Innovation. 
Environmental compliance Supply chain. 
GHG emissions from operations. 
Diversity. 
Energy efficiency Human rights. 
Water management. 
Spills management. 
Business ethics and anti-corruption. 
Material topics of major importance for stakeholders and on which OMV’s business activities are likely to have the biggest impacts. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 29


Environmental, Social, and Governance Ratings and Indices. 
OMV actively engages with Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) rating agencies and socially responsible investors to ensure that we disclose the information investors need to evaluate sustainability risks and opportunities related to our performance. The continuous evolution of our business toward sustainability and an increase in the transparency of information we provide on our activities resulted in a year-over-year increase in our ESG ranking. These rankings are important for investor decision-making.
Recognition of OMV performance reflected in ESG ratings. 
RobecoSAM recognized OMV as an Industry Mover in its Yearbook 2019. We demonstrated the largest proportional improvement in sustainability performance compared to the previous year out of the industry’s top 15% companies. OMV was also included in the SAM Yearbook 2020 as one of nine oil and gas upstream and integrated companies.
OMV attained Prime Status according to the ISS ESG rating with a score of B–, which positions the Company among the top 5% oil and gas companies with the best ESG performance.
OMV received Quality Score 1 from ISS in the Environmental, Social, and Governance categories. This puts OMV in the top 10% of energy companies under review.
In 2019, OMV Aktiengesellschaft was rated AAA (on a scale of AAA to CCC) in the MSCI ESG Ratings assessment.10. 
OMV received an AAA rating for the seventh year in a row. This score places OMV among the best 10% oil and gas companies in terms of ESG performance.
CDP awarded OMV an A– (Leadership) score for the fourth year in a row in 2019. This ranks OMV as one of the top 14 companies in the global oil and gas sector, and among the 5 top-performing companies in Austria.
The Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI) has assigned OMV the highest Level 4 rating for carbon management quality.
10 The use by OMV of any MSCI ESG Research LLC or its affiliates (“MSCI”) data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks, or index names herein do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of OMV by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of MSCI or its information providers, and are provided “as is” and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 30


OMV is rated as an “Outperformer” in Environmental, Social, and Governance performance by Sustainalytics. OMV ranks among the top 12% of oil and gas companies. Sustainalytics is a leading global provider of Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG) and Corporate Governance research and ratings.
OMV was assessed by EcoVadis and received Silver CSR status as a supplier.
Highlights of OMV’s inclusion in ESG indices. 
OMV has been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI World) since 2018. This was confirmed for the second consecutive time in September 2019, positioning OMV among the top 10% oil and gas companies in terms of ESG performance. OMV is the only Austrian company included in the DJSI World. Launched in 1999, the DJSI World represents the gold standard for corporate sustainability and is the first global index to track the leading sustainability-driven companies based on SAM’s11 analysis of financially material ESG factors.
OMV is one of the 238 companies included in the S&P Europe 350 ESG Index – a recently launched sustainabilityfocused S&P index. Following SAM’s Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA), OMV is one of five companies in the integrated oil & gas industry to be included in the S&P Europe 350 ESG Index.
OMV has been included in the FTSE4Good Index Series every year since 2015. FTSE Russell (the trading name of FTSE International Limited and Frank Russell Company) confirms that OMV has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria and has satisfied the requirements for inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Based on an assessment by Sustainalytics, OMV was again included in the STOXX® Global ESG Leaders index, among other STOXX® indices.
OMV was reconfirmed as a member of the ECPI® Indices.
11 SAM is the investment specialist in sustainability investment, providing analysis of financially material ESG factors for Dow Jones Sustainability Indices.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / SUSTAINABILITY AT OMV 31


IN THIS CHAPTER. 
Highlights 2019 33. 
Health, Safety, Security, and Environment 34. 
Carbon Efficiency 56. 
Innovation 72. 
Employees 85. 
Business Principles and Social Responsibility 94. 
Focus Areas


Highlights 2019. 
Health, Safety, Security, and Environment (HSSE)
Fatalities 0. 
Freshwater withdrawn in water stressed areas −61%
Energy savings from imple- mented projects in refineries 365 TJ. 
Find out more about this material focus area.
Carbon Efficiency. 
CDP Climate Change. 
A–
Leadership. 
Reduction in carbon intensity of operations vs.
2010 −22%
Increase in natural gas sales volumes 20%
Find out more about this material focus area.
Innovation. 
Spent on R&D 49 mn. 
EUR. 
Post-consumer plastic transformed into synthetic oil 100 t. 
Strategic cooperations for hydrogen solutions and 14 hydrogen filling stations. 
Find out more about this material focus area.
Employees. 
Share of women at management level 19.6%
Executives with international experience 77%
Training hours across the Group 404,222. 
Find out more about this material focus area.
Business Principles and Social. 
Responsibility. 
Employees participated in Busi- ness Ethics online training 11,144. 
OMV employees received training on human rights 47%
Supplier audits with sustainability elements 11. 
Social and community invest- ments 20.8 mn. 
EUR. 
Find out more about this material focus area.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 33


Vision. 
Mission. 
Protect People, Assets, the Environment. 
Achieve Group-wide ZERO Harm – NO Losses. 
Health, Safety, Security, and Environment. 
Health, safety, security, and protection of the environment (HSSE) are core values that constitute an integral part of our commitment to conducting our business in a responsible way. The essence of prioritizing HSSE is expressed in OMV’s HSSE Vision of “ZERO harm – NO losses.” The Vision establishes the dependence of OMV’s long-term business success on our ability to continually improve the quality of our business activities while protecting people, the environment, assets, and our reputation. The integrity of OMV operating facilities, loss prevention, and proactive risk management are essential for achieving OMV’s HSSE Vision.
Key Figures 0. 
Fatalities −8%
Energy consumption vs.
2018 0.34 LTIR per mn hours worked. 
The Vision is embedded in the HSSE Policy. The full text of the HSSE Policy is available on OMV’s website.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 34


Health, Safety, Security, and Environmental Management. 
Due to a high degree of interdependence between Health, Safety, Security, and the Environment, these concepts are grouped into one single management focus: HSSE. HSSE management is governed by the HSSE Directive, which defines key expectations in compliance with internal HSSE regulations at various levels of the organizational structure as well as across Group and local functions. The Directive sets out the principles and rules for the management of HSSE-related risks and activities throughout the life cycle of Group business and activities, including capital projects, mergers, and acquisitions. The Directive also defines key HSSE responsibilities for all OMV Group employees, partners, and contractors. It additionally contains the HSSE Policy, the Major Accident Prevention Policy, and the Life Saving Rules. It also stipulates the continuous improvement of HSSE performance.
The HSSE Directive defines core aspects of HSSE management, grouped into twelve elements revolving around the “Plan-Do-Check-Act” cycle. For each element, the HSSE Directive defines the approach to follow for effective HSSE management. The HSSE Strategy and its implementation are aligned and fully embedded into the Corporate Strategy and the corporate governance structure.
Core aspects of HSSE management 1 Leadership and. 
Commitment 2 Organization 3 People, Competency, and Behavior 4 Risk Management 12 Audit and Review 11 Stakeholder Dialogue and Information. 
Management 9 Incidents and. 
Accidents 8 Planning and. 
Cost Management 5 Engineering and. 
Project Management 10 Emergency and. 
Crisis Control 7 Contracted Services 6 Operations and Performance. 
Management. 
Act. 
Plan Check. 
Do. 
Commitment and. 
Policy. 
Planning. 
Review and Improvement. 
Continuous. 
Improvements. 
Measurement and Evaluation. 
Implementation. 
Based on the HSSE Strategy, a business-specific HSSE Plan was developed for 2019 based on cross-functional and subject-matter goals. Leadership responsibility is assigned to the members of the Executive Board. OMV’s HSSE management includes interaction with employees or their representatives (trade unions) as a channel of engagement regarding issues that are particularly important and necessary for improvement. Health, Safety, Security, and Environment (HSSE) Days are organized by the HSSE department for OMV’s various units to inform employees about HSSE topics.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 35


Executive Board. 
Chief Executive Officer & Chief Marketing Officer. 
Safety. 
Culture Program. 
Chief Financial. 
Officer. 
Carbon. 
Management. 
Chief Upstream. 
Operations Officer. 
Process Safety through Value-Creating Projects. 
Chief Downstream Operations Officer. 
Contractor HSSE. 
Management. 
Health. 
Health management. 
The well-being and physical and mental health of our employees are the foundations for a successful company, since they affect the performance levels of our Company’s core asset – human capital. We have established a Groupwide health care standard to ensure a high level of care for our employees’ health across the Company. The standard includes preventive initiatives, such as targeted health promotion campaigns, a systematic assessment of health risk mitigation, and curative care.
Health management at OMV is both a strategic and an operational system. Its success depends on leadership, commitment, and participation at all levels and functions in the organization, and on the part of medical specialists and partners as well as employees. The OMV Group Standard for Health describes the main principles, roles and responsibilities, and lines of communication within the OMV Group. The standard provides a framework for managing preventive health measures and curative health care, as well as collaboration among HSSE specialists.
The standard regulates the work of operative medical service providers in relation to providers in the following areas:
For example, in the health care standard we have defined the minimum equipment and materials for our clinics – both on land and offshore – like electrocardiogram (ECG), defibrillators, suction units, rescue devices, and emergency medication. It also supplements local legal requirements, allowing us to establish a harmonized level of health care services and access to medical facilities at all OMV sites.
OMV applies its own risk management standard including a thorough assessment of possible risks, including healthrelated risks. We have therefore developed guidelines – based on international guidelines from IOGP/IPIECA – for health risk assessment that cover such health risks as harm from chemical agents, psychological strain, physical injuries, and others.
A special health audit program developed by the Corporate Health Management department serves as evaluation tool to ensure that our common corporate health care standard is implemented and followed throughout the Group. The program stipulates that all clinics and medical partners be audited every three years, and clinics also report on a selfconducted audit every year. In 2019, 14 clinics in at least 6 countries were audited, and 46 clinics in 17 countries reported on self-performed audit results. Audit results serve as the basis for identifying areas for further improvement and analyzing the effectiveness of our health management approach.
Planning of human resources, medical facilities and services, and local health plans. 
Implementation of operational health risk assessment and management, emergency preparedness, health programs and trainings. 
Checks and audits of medical suppliers (laboratories, partner clinics, pharmacies), hygiene in food facilities, customer satisfaction. 
Reporting. 
Collaboration with contractors and subcontractors on health and safety. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 36


Health promotion activities. 
Every year we organize health promotion activities, to enhance the knowledge of our employees on healthrelated issues.
In 2019, we carried out the “Passport for Health” campaign at OMV Petrom for the fourth time. This campaign aims to strengthen the culture of health care to encourage employees to participate in voluntary health programs and to start living a healthy lifestyle. The 2019 campaign covered topics relating to resilience, physical activity, and a healthy diet, with 3,353 participants taking part in these activities.
We also organized a special event at OMV Petrom called “Win Health: ON!”. This was a competition where five teams across the country competed in their knowledge of health in a series of theoretical challenges.
Another example of employee interaction with the Health Management System is the Health Circle organized in Gänserndorf, Austria. Twice a year employees gather to address work-related health issues and create customized solutions in collaboration with the local health team. In 2019, the topics included action needed to improve preventive care, collaboration on HSSE Days, training and refresher courses on resuscitation and defibrillator use, vaccination initiatives, preventive care, and other healthrelated concerns.
To mitigate occupational health risks, our medical staff carries out specific preventive examinations in accordance with the legal regulations of the countries in which we operate. These exams include blood tests for employees working with specific hazardous substances and hearing tests for employees exposed to noise.
We offer general health screenings for our employees. In addition, we run seasonal campaigns to provide free vaccinations against flu and tick-borne encephalitis in affected areas. In 2019, 32,380 voluntary health screenings, 5,339 vaccinations, 111,457 medical consultations, and 146,700 occupational health examinations were performed and/or organized by OMV medical staff.
Medical facilities. 
OMV maintains or works with a total of 35 medical units at all locations where we have operating facilities.
OMV maintains or works with a total of 35 medical units at all locations where we have operating facilities. The presence of OMV first aid facilities benefits the local population, as it often provides necessary medical help in remote areas where medical services might not be easily accessible quickly (particularly in Yemen and Kazakhstan). In 2019, OMV first aid facilities assisted around 1,974 individuals in the local population in need of urgent care. From this perspective, our assistance to the local population provides a positive impact outside OMV’s operational boundaries, thereby contributing to building a good relationship with our neighbors.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 37


Safety of people and processes. 
Occupational safety management. 
OMV aims to adhere to the highest standards to provide its employees and contractors a safe workplace. Our Safety Management System is based on the OMV Group’s HSSE Policy, the HSSE Directive, and corporate regulations, such as HSSE Risk Management, Contractor HSSE Management, Management of Hazardous Substances, Personnel Transportation, and Reporting, Investigation, and Classification of Incidents, which provide the framework for safety management. 19% of OMV sites, including all three refineries, have been certified to OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001.
We establish feasible and viable mitigation measures to prevent accidents and to minimize the negative impact on people and the environment when incidents occur. Our regulations stipulate mandatory risk assessments for nonroutine work, any changes, and projects as well as regular reviews of the risk assessments of existing installations and Last-Minute Risk Analysis (e.g., in the course of toolbox meetings) prior to every job.
The Major Accident12 Prevention Policy, which is part of the HSSE Directive, sets out the overall aims and guidelines for controlling the risk of a major accident as part of OMV Group operations and activities for achieving those aims. Acknowledging that the risks of major accidents in onshore or offshore operations related to oil and gas extraction, transportation, refining, and distribution activities are significant, and recognizing that such major accidents can have severe consequences for the environment and affected persons, OMV firmly believes that a strong safety culture is the foundation for all of its operations and relationships with contractors.
Major risks and the respective mitigation measures are evaluated and monitored within the Enterprise-Wide Risk Management (EWRM) process, documented in a Group-wide database (Active Risk Management System; ARMS) and reported to top management biannually or on an ad-hoc basis whenever issues arise. Senior management is directly involved in the review of risks identified as a top priority.
In 2019, we focused on updating the information related to OMV operated assets with the potential for Major Accident Events (MAEs) in ARMS. Special emphasis was placed on facilities that are regulated by (or meet the criteria of) the Seveso III Directive of the European Union (the Directive on the control of major accident hazards involving dangerous chemical substances) and on high-risk pipelines, flowlines, and high-risk wells. We also included facilities in non-EU countries which meet the criteria of the Seveso Directive. Operational integrity assessments and barrier reviews were conducted for these facilities. These assessments not only audited the suitability of existing barriers that are critical for preventing and/or mitigating the impact of a Major Accident Event but also assessed the effectiveness of process safety management implementation. A similar approach will continue in 2020 for assessing other critical facilities in the OMV Group which include, but are not limited to, offshore-operated assets, refineries, operated tank farms, etc. The overall goal is to prevent major accidents and limit the consequences of any accidents that may occur, in line with HSSE’s Vision of “ZERO harm – NO losses.”
In line with the HSSE Directive, clear roles and responsibilities are defined for all staff, line management, and senior management. Line management is responsible for ensuring that HSSE issues are integrated into all business decisions and activities. They are required to demonstrate commitment and leadership by acting as role models and undertaking appropriate measures to control and manage all HSSE risks in their spheres of responsibility.
All staff is required to be familiar with the HSSE Policy, internal HSSE regulations, and the relevant legislation. They actively contribute to and further develop HSSE awareness as part of the corporate culture, stop and report unsafe or irresponsible acts and conditions, and report any incidents and non-compliance. OMV employees at all levels are regularly trained on their roles and responsibilities. Moreover, our Life Saving Rules are presented and discussed regularly during awareness programs, workshops, management walk-arounds and safety walks, and even at the start of various meetings.
We have a central HSSE reporting tool in place where all incidents, findings, and defined actions are reported and tracked. Over many years, our aim was to increase awareness regarding entries into this reporting tool to boost their quality, create transparency, and improve data owner accountability. Various types of reports are available and regularly distributed in order to create an informed basis for managing HSSE and decision-making.
During 2019, 106,231 (2018: 101,889) unsafe conditions and behavior reports were collected in our reporting system.
All employees and contractors are encouraged to bring to the attention of line management unsafe conditions and behaviors in order to identify and resolve potential issues that might otherwise lead to future accidents. We acknowledge – locally and at Group level – these improvement opportunities raised by employees and contractors.
In 2019, we continued to organize training sessions for 96 persons as Investigation Team Leaders, involving a thirdparty specialized company to provide them with the necessary information. The aim is to ensure that our Company 12 Major Accident refers to an incident involving an explosion, fire, loss of well control, release of oil, gas, or dangerous substances, serious damage to the installation or con- nected infrastructure, involving or with a significant potential to cause fatalities or serious personal injury or environmental damage within a large area outside the boundaries, as well as any other incident leading to fatalities or serious injury to five or more persons.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 38


has skilled and knowledgeable people available to find root causes and establish suitable and necessary measures to prevent the occurrence of severe incidents or incidents with a high potential for loss.
We continued integrating technical experts into the investigation teams to better understand and address the root causes of technically complex incidents. At the same time, we remained focused on verifying the effectiveness of actions implemented after severe incidents and High-Potential Incidents (HiPos) in previous years, including process safety incidents.
We used a common HSSE platform to ensure Group-wide sharing of knowledge and takeaways from incidents. A complete collection of case studies and information on incidents from Upstream and Downstream since 2013 is available at Group level for use and communication during safety moments, in toolbox talks, or at HSSE trainings.
The health and safety of the people who work for us are key priorities at OMV. Our Executive Board shows strong leadership and commitment to these goals. In 2019, we defined three focus areas related to safety, with an Executive Board member the owner of each. Biannual sharing sessions were organized between the owners and Upstream and Downstream colleagues to establish a common basis of understanding and to exchange information about safety culture, contractor HSSE management, and process safety through value-creating projects.
We believe that promoting open dialogue and establishing a culture in which health and safety are integrated into every employee’s role are effective ways to empower people to work safely. Workers are engaged in launching, implementing, evaluating, and improving health and safety programs. They work closely with their managers to find joint solutions to common problems, which helps managers pinpoint issues, while workers are motivated and encouraged to improve their own safety. In 2019, 180 formal joint health and safety committees comprising management and worker representatives were organized at OMV Group sites.
Education and training are important tools for informing workers and managers about workplace hazards and controls so they can work more safely and be more productive.
Training topics are defined in part based on an analysis of the incidents’ root causes and contributing factors, as well as findings from various HSSE assessments. During 2019, we organized awareness trainings as well as trainings on HSSE roles and responsibilities, hazard identification, and controls. Some of the sessions covered work permits, gas testing, hydrogen sulfide, and hazardous substances, as well as hazards with the potential for serious consequences (such as work at height, excavations, lifting operations, transportation). Awareness on process safety topics was enhanced through the use of computer-based training modules.
A quarterly Petrom Safety Committee meeting and, later on, a quarterly Environmental Committee meeting began to be held regularly at OMV Petrom Board level in order to analyze HSSE-specific performance and projects and define actions to continuously improve HSSE performance.
In 2019, the Lost-Time Injury Rate (LTIR)13 for our own employees and contractors (combined) per 1 million hours worked was 0.34 (2018: 0.30). Our combined Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)14 was 0.95 (2018: 0.78).
Lost-Time Injury Rate. 
Per 1 mn hours worked. 
Employees Contractors Total 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0.26 0.28 0.37 0.42 0.24 0.39 0.29 0.31 0.51 0.27 0.27 0.40 0.34 0.30 0.34. 
Total Recordable Injury Rate. 
Per 1 mn hours worked. 
Employees Contractors Total 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0.59 0.79 0.66 0.72 0.73 0.82 0.88 0.74 1.26 0.81 0.73 0.70 0.79 0.78 0.95 13 See Definitions for details 14 See Definitions for details. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 39


Sustainability Strategy 2025 targets Achieve zero work-related fatalities. 
Stabilize Lost-Time Injury Rate at below 0.30 (per 1 million hours worked)
Status 2019. 
Action plan to achieve the targets Contractor management. 
Safety culture. 
Incident investigation. 
Work-related fatalities: zero. 
Lost-Time Injury Rate: 0.34. 
Improve oversight of contractor activities by periodically reviewing the HSSE performance of key contractors and addressing the concerns during quarterly service quality meetings. 
Perform contractor HSSE audits with a strong focus on subcontractors. 
Perform joint HSSE walk-arounds at contractor sites. 
Enhance dialogue in HSSE walk-arounds/safety walks. 
Develop hazard-awareness activities linked to the HSSE Life Saving Rules to improve employee engagement in identifying hazards and managing risks. 
Recognize good performance in HSSE reporting and reward safe behavior at business units and Corporate level. 
Organize HSSE trainings for employees and managers with focus on safety leadership and Life Saving Rules. 
Continue sharing experience at Group level through the central platform. 
Follow up on actions derived from incident investigations. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 40


We continued to concentrate on quality over quantity in terms of reporting, management walk-arounds, safety walks, and action close-out as well as putting our efforts toward bringing safety closer to the hearts and minds of our colleagues. We are focusing more attention on improving our management walk-arounds and safety walks through development of an open dialogue during these, which promotes understanding of the challenges in the operating fields and increases trust between the workforce and management. In this respect, a dedicated number of walk-arounds and safety walks were performed with coaching or in pairs made up of an experienced and a less experienced colleague.
In our operations, we recognized safe behavior and good safety practices to improve the relationship between the workforce and management and to encourage safe behavior in a positive manner. For example, we rewarded good safety practices observed on the spot with vouchers, recognized individuals and teams during quarterly site visits in Refining, organized forums and periodical management meetings in Upstream, and conducted dedicated recognition events, such as the Petrom Annual Safety Excellence Award.
In Upstream, we conducted audits to check compliance with the work permit system in all OMV Petrom Upstream assets. At the same time, we effectively communicated the Life Saving Rules across all MEA countries through extensive Aware Care Talks with own employees and contractors’ employees in order to improve daily adherence to these. In Downstream, we launched a pilot for a new electronic permit to work, which will increase the efficiency of the process.
Focus on contractor safety. 
The safety of our contractors is just as important as the safety of our own employees. For this reason, we have established processes that require contractors to work according to our standards.
Our Contractor HSSE Management Process begins when we issue the scope of work with information about HSSE requirements and the HSSE Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). The process continues through the tender stage with the HSSE prequalification and capability audit. Once the contract terms are agreed and the contract is awarded, before starting work on site, we reinforce our expectations and requirements during HSSE induction, site-specific trainings, and common meetings. During the contract, we monitor our contractors by way of audits, inspections, joint safety walks, service quality meetings, forums, and workshops, using the outcomes to share experience and encourage improvement of our HSSE performance as a team.
In 2019, we continued to integrate contractor organizations into our HSSE audit program and to organize the service quality meetings with key contractors on a quarterly basis, making HSSE an important part of the agenda. In addition, our strengths and weaknesses in HSSE management in our relationships with our contractors and suppliers were discussed during the annual strategic supplier meetings organized by Procurement, as well as in various forums and workshops.
Based on the gap analysis performed in 2018, we issued a new Contractor HSSE Management Standard in 2019. The standard defines the minimum requirements for integrating HSSE issues into all phases of the contract life cycle and into the contractor management process. The standard aims to define a standardized process for the HSSE management of contractors, from selection through contract close-out.
Safety promotion activities. 
In 2019, we continued to run the Group-wide Safety Culture Program with the main goal of driving change and striving for the best in an environment where safe behavior is a prerequisite for good safety performance.
Protect your and your colleagues’ lives. 
Ask when you are in doubt!
Stop all unsafe work, acts and conditions!
Obtain authorization before entering excavation activities!
Risk Assessment: Know the hazards before you start!
Obtain authorization before entering a confined space (e.g. vessel, tank., pipe)!
Conduct gas tests when required!
Make sure you have a Permit to Work or authorization for your job!
Do not walk under a suspended load!
Wear personnel protec- tion equipment inclu- ding a personal flotation devicewhen required!
Use fall protection whenever you could fall from heights!
Verify isolation before work begin!
Do not work under or near overhead electric power lines!
Follow basic rules for every lift and plan all your lifts!
Prevent dropped objects!
Obtain authorization before overriding or disabling safety critical equipment!
Maintain your work- place clean and tidy!
Position yourself in a safe zone in relation to moving and ener- gized equipment!
No alcohol or drugs while working or driving!
Drive safely and comply with road transportation rules!
Do not smoke outside designated smoking area!
We held three HSSE café sessions at our headquarters in Vienna, one for celebrating the “World Day for Safety and Health at Work,” one for promoting the Life Saving Rules, and one on Carbon Management. During these sessions, staff had the opportunity to refresh their knowledge of safety in the head office. We continued the campaign on promoting the use of handrails to encourage safety on stairs and to visibly show commitment to our safety culture.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 41


At OMV Petrom headquarters, various campaigns and events were developed and organized with the main purpose of raising awareness of safety as our first priority. We rolled out the Life Saving Rules at Petrom City through posters, stickers, and an animated training video. We also organized the “Be a Survivor!” road safety campaign and held a “Setting the Tone in Petrom City” event led by OMV Petrom’s CEO.
The implementation of the Life Saving Rules continued at the operational sites across the entire Group through trainings and workshops, such as “I ACT” in the countries of the Middle East and Africa region, “Protect Your and Your Colleagues Lives!” at OMV Petrom Downstream, and others.
Based on the takeaways from last year’s pilot project launched at Romania’s Upstream Asset IX, we conducted the same activities to further integrate the Safety Culture Program into operations at all OMV Petrom Upstream assets. Local employees from various disciplines were organized into working groups assigned to improve implementation of defined Life Saving Rules and to ensure safe behaviors related to those rules in the areas of gas testing, lifting operations, electrical and mechanical isolations, work permits, and others. The teams of multipliers, i.e., employees disseminating the knowledge and skills received in information sessions, were expanded. They continued to train and coach other coworkers and contractors in the field on recognizing hazards and assessing risks on the job.
A dedicated training session for frontline managers was launched at OMV Petrom Upstream and workshops were held with the leadership team at OMV Petrom Downstream to improve safety leadership skills.
The safety culture assessment was extended to other operating sites in New Zealand, Serbia, and Moldova, and to OMV Petrom Aviation.
In early 2019, we cascaded defined actions and targets related to implementation of the Safety Culture Program into all local HSSE plans. The following defined actions and targets were successfully implemented and achieved:
All of these activities and related indicators were monitored and evaluated on a quarterly basis.
Process safety management. 
Process safety management is the proactive identification, analysis, and evaluation of risks related to accidental releases of hazardous substances or process accidents that could occur as a result of failures in process technology, procedures, or equipment, and it includes prevention of such releases or accidents. It is applicable to the management of hazards associated with the chemical and physical properties of the substances we handle in our oil, gas, and energy activities.
Tier 1 and Tier 2 key performance indicators provide baseline performance information and are measured each year for a consistent overview of Company process safety performance. In addition, we monitor and report Tier 3 events for a better assessment of the critical barriers at facility level.
The monitoring and reporting of Tier 3 events provides an overview of the weaknesses in critical barriers at facility level. In 2019, the number of Tier 3 Process Safety Events (PSEs) reported was 4,379 (2018: 5,329).
The number of Tier 1 events in 2019 was the same as in the last two years: 4 events.
The number of Tier 2 events in 2019 decreased in comparison with 2018 data (2019: 7 events; 2018: 12 events).15 We continued to perform detailed investigations of process safety incidents and used the outcomes in our learning process.
In Upstream, we focused our process safety efforts on monitoring the maintenance of safety-critical elements and completing regulatory inspections. Our operations achieved significant improvements in 2019: We completed almost 100% of work orders and all regulatory inspections.
HSSE walk-arounds, safety walks, and dialogues on site were performed at all sites in accordance with our plans. Some of these involved coaching in order to improve the quality of communication.
Hazard awareness activities were developed and implemented in accordance with the specific needs of the sites.
The close-out rate for actions arising from (or related to) level 3+ incidents and HiPos was 97.8% vs. the >80% target.
15 A Tier 1 Process Safety Event (PSE) is a Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) with the greatest consequence. A Tier 2 PSE is an LOPC with lesser consequence. A Tier 3 PSE is a so-called “near miss” not leading to actual consequences, or is not classified as Tier 1 or Tier 2. For a more detailed definition of Tier 1, Tier 2, and Tier 3 PSEs, see Definitions.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 42


Process Safety Events, Tier 1 and Tier 2. 
In number of events 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2
12 9
16 4
6 4
12 4
7. 
Tier 1 Tier 2. 
In Downstream, we continue to develop our process safety management activities in the operating units based primarily on process safety information and awareness, employee qualifications, and constant monitoring of process safety performance using a comprehensive set of leading and lagging process safety performance indicators. This year, we completed our series of internal process safety management assessments with an assessment at the Petrobrazi refinery performed by a cross-site and cross-disciplinary team. We also focused our activities on process safety leadership and communication and on the ongoing assessment of the effectiveness of process-safetyrelevant regulations in the field.
We began to implement process safety projects in Austria Upstream, adhering to the principle “operate according to needs, not what you are used to.” The goal of these projects is to create long-term value by mitigating safety risks and environmental impact. They aim is to reduce pressure, stored inventory, and operating equipment. In addition, these projects will allow us to save fuel, reduce emissions, and increase production wherever possible.
Sustainability Strategy 2025 target Keep leading position in Process Safety Event Rate. 
Status 2019. 
Action plan to achieve the target 0.1516. 
Continue consolidating Major Accident Event (MAE) scenarios for Seveso and offshore facilities as well as for other onshore facilities which meet the criteria of the Seveso III Directive in the Active Risk Management System (ARMS)
Perform process safety assessments in Downstream and operation integrity assessments in Upstream for verifying key risk control barrier status. 
Harmonize process safety KPI reporting across the Group in order to improve the measuring and monitoring process related to process safety, which in turn can be used to improve preventative actions, such as management system revision, training, and facilities engineering improvements 16 The scope of the Process Safety Event Rate performance is limited to events and working hours from entities in the Upstream segment: Austria, Kazakhstan, Malaysia,
New Zealand, Norway, Romania, Tunisia, and Yemen; in the Downstream segment: Refining and Petrochemicals, Gas Connect Austria.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 43


Security. 
Security management. 
The objective of OMV’s security activities is to protect the OMV Group’s personnel, assets, information, operations, value, and reputation against any intentional or malicious threats. A still-unstable geopolitical environment in 2019, combined with enduring regional conflicts resulted in an ongoing emphasis by the Security experts on OMV’s assets located in the Middle East and North Africa. In addition to the challenges of operating securely in Yemen, Tunisia, and Libya, the enduring threat of terrorist attacks in Europe and elsewhere has remained significant. Political extremism, organized crime, and asymmetric cyberthreats ensure that the Security team continues to maintain a robust yet flexible security strategy to enable OMV to continue operating in such dynamic environments.
The philosophy of using information and protective intelligence as a preventive security instrument remains a fundamental principle of our strategy. It affords the ability to anticipate or instantly respond to a broad spectrum of geopolitical events, regional conflicts, or isolated incidents. Effective interaction with government agencies also augments this approach with the reliable corroboration of facts.
OMV’s unique Security Risk Assessment Platform provides real-time oversight of OMV asset risk exposure levels and can be quickly readjusted in response to geopolitical or security events.
The Integrated Travel Security Platform incorporates all OMV ventures and individual travelers, and is used to monitor all international and domestic business travel for security-related events. Mitigation procedures and evacuation contingencies are adapted or activated depending on known or emerging threats.
OMV also utilizes a comprehensive range of security regulations, plans, procedures, measures, and systems as part of a Security Management Standard. This document utilizes IOGP best practice guidelines and other industry best practice (ASIS and UK Security Institute) to enable OMV to more effectively detect, deter, protect, prevent, record, and investigate threats.
All of the above platforms and components form a unique, agile, and proven Security Management System that is regularly reviewed, changed, or enhanced as the situation requires.
In 2019, the Security team at Corporate level continued to deliver operational support to OMV ventures. In addition, in high-risk countries, we have dedicated Country Security. 
Managers and Asset Protection Experts on site to add additional expertise. As the business continues to evolve in the Middle East and Africa region, this will remain an enduring commitment for 2020.
OMV’s human rights policies and actions remain crucial in terms of security. Effective community engagement at a local level is a powerful security mitigation measure in regions experiencing conflict or instability. In high-risk countries, OMV’s local security and community engagement strategies are tightly integrated, promoting effective policies, mutual respect, and transparency with all local stakeholders. They, in turn, have directly contributed to OMV’s stable and secure operating environment in 2019. This cooperation encourages a precautionary approach in early detection and resolution of local grievances.
Our employees responsible for security management constitute part of the target group in the scope of the strategic target of conducting training in human rights. (For more details, see Human rights training.)
Security initiatives. 
Throughout 2019, the OMV Security function continued to actively enable numerous business initiatives in high-risk or semi-permissible environments.
In the third quarter 2019, OMV Security redeployed into Yemen as the first “expat” rotational field workers into Block S2 since its evacuation in 2015. In the fourth quarter, the Security team was joined by rotational OMV colleagues engaged in technical operations along with third-party service companies to successfully deliver the venture’s resumption strategy.
OMV Security teams in Yemen initiated the installation of solar power at the permanent checkpoints and guard positions around its concession in Shabwa, Yemen. Solar power will be used to power the facilities and provide lighting, electricity, and heating while reducing carbon emissions, maintenance, and fuel costs incurred in running fossil-fuel generators.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 44


We also try to improve working conditions for our local guards in remote locations, where local infrastructure is not sufficiently developed. Thus, we are extending the water pipeline to the remote checkpoints in Yemen to eliminate the need for time-consuming and expensive daily replenishment via water trucks. Such remote infrastructure initiatives can also be utilized by and benefit the local population, especially nomadic people in tribal communities. For example, OMV Tunisia’s Security team at Nawara took the initiative to construct fixed watering points to help the local nomadic camel herdsmen and their herds in an attempt to support the local community and reduce any potential social grievances regarding access to water.
Information security management. 
In an increasingly interconnected global environment, information is exposed to a rapidly growing variety of risks, threats, and vulnerabilities. OMV invests in information security to protect technology, assets, and critical information as well as to protect our reputation and avoid any damage or monetary loss resulting from unauthorized access to our systems and data.
We build the foundation for a secure environment on clear and actionable standards and processes, supported by well-defined organizational responsibilities in order to implement the increased requirements of cybersecurity. We achieve this with our integrated IT17 and OT18 security framework across Corporate, Upstream, and Downstream, which are continually aligning security standards, detailing security requirements, executing tools for security risk assessment and prevention, and setting up contract and incident management.
We rely on a stable foundation of four elements in order to ensure IT and OT security at OMV.
Strategy & governance. 
Preventive measures. 
Detective & reactive measures. 
Technical “housekeeping” measures. 
Strategy and governance are essential for setting our direction, providing the relevant security framework, building internal capabilities, pursuing the information security strategy, empowering the security organization, and creating awareness. We train and inform the workforce regarding potential risks and security issues in our everyday business. Furthermore, mandatory and optional trainings equip employees with the tools to handle problems such as phishing or ransomware attempts. In addition, these trainings support employees based on specific advanced information security solutions and processes.
Preventive measures are in place in order to lower the risk of security breaches by introducing new tools, detection strategies, and response plans in order to maintain a strong perimeter. We ensure the stability of our security system’s architecture.
Detective and reactive measures are designed to create transparency around existing risks, security gaps, and vulnerabilities. In order to protect our assets and eliminate intruders, we integrate reactive measures to mitigate possible damage and take remediation measures to ensure a fast and total recovery.
Technical “housekeeping” measures ensure a solid foundation with up-to-date hardware and software as well as adequate information security processes. Keeping OMV free from security gaps and potential security risks is essential for the whole business. To achieve this, we implement security patches and offer guidelines in order to provide consistent hardware and software life cycles.
17 Information Technology (IT) is a set of cybersecurity strategies that prevents unauthorized access to organizational assets such as computers, networks, and data. It maintains the integrity and confidentiality of sensitive information, blocking the access of sophisticated hackers.
18 OT Security is defined as Operational Technology (OT) hardware and software that detects or causes a change through the direct monitoring and/or control of physical devices, processes, and events in the enterprise. OT is common in Industrial Control Systems (ICS) such as a SCADA System.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 45


Environment. 
Environmental management. 
In striving to minimize the impact of our operations, we particularly emphasize issues of material importance to both OMV and our stakeholders: spills, energy efficiency, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water and waste management.
All topics of material importance related to our environmental impact are managed through a single management approach, governed by general and topic-specific Group regulations, and reported to management accordingly. Specifics regarding the definition of the scope and management of each environmental topic are provided in the corresponding sections: Energy efficiency, Spills management, Water management. Reporting on the management of GHG emissions can be found in the Carbon Efficiency section, since this is a separate focus area of our Sustainability Strategy. As mentioned in the Reporting on materiality section, we also cover the topics of biodiversity and waste management, as these are also important to OMV.
OMV tracks environmental performance in all relevant areas through an annual campaign using suitable IT tools for collecting, validating, and analyzing environmental data. Based on the results of the reporting, OMV can evaluate where our operations have the greatest potential for improvement. Detailed information on the performance of selected environmental indicators is presented under Performance in Detail.
Minimizing environmental impacts by way of water and soil pollution prevention, reduction of emissions, efficient use of energy and natural resources, and avoiding biodiversity disruption is an integral part of the OMV HSSE Policy. In particular, our focus on climate change mitigation as part of our environmental policy led to the inclusion of three related targets in the Sustainability Strategy 2025. (For more information on targets related to reducing GHG emissions, see Carbon Efficiency.)
The principles and rules for environmental management are set out in the OMV Group’s HSSE Directive and the OMV Group Environmental Management Standard. The HSSE Directive defines the “environment” as “a natural and human surrounding in which an organization operates, including air, water, land, natural resources, flora, fauna, humans, and their interrelationships.”
The OMV Group Environmental Management Standard requires that all relevant OMV businesses and activities (including investment, acquisitions, and divestment) implement an Environmental Management System (EMS) consistent with ISO 14001 and adhere to the minimum require- ments listed. All relevant OMV businesses are required to review and update the EMS at least once per year, while a full EMS audit must be carried out either by an external independent auditor or OMV corporate environmental experts every three years for sites not certified to ISO 14001. Internal EMS audits are performed at the local level at least once a year to identify improvement measures.
By 2020, OMV aims to achieve 100% compliance by all operational sites with the OMV Group Environmental Management Standard as well as the requirements of ISO 14001 and ISO 50001. Our intermediate target for 2019 was 70% compliance, which we achieved. In order to achieve this target, we developed and rolled out a self-assessment tool and have defined the units that will undergo the assessment to determine where there are gaps with respect to the system and standards. Following the analysis, the units undergoing the assessment will be required to implement compliance plans defining how they will close the identified gaps.
The Central Integrated Management System (C-IMS) of OMV’s Downstream business is certified according to ISO 14001, ISO 9001, ISO 50001, and OHSAS 18001. The OMV Refining and Petrochemicals business, including OMV Petrom power plants and the Petrobrazi refinery, are covered by the C-IMS.
EMS of other OMV business units are externally certified according to the following international EMS standards:
OMV Deutschland GmbH holds certification according to EMAS III (Eco Management and Audit Scheme).
Gas Connect Austria is certified according to ISO 14001, ISO 9001, ISO 50001, and OHSAS 18001.
OMV Tunisia is certified according to ISO 14001 and ISO 50001.
OMV Petrom Upstream Romania is certified according to ISO 14001, ISO 9001, and OHSAS 18001 for its Maintenance and Gas Pipeline Management System.
The OMV Petrom Group’s Energy Management System is certified according to ISO 50001, and the certification covers all Upstream and Downstream business activities.
OMV Petrom Marketing S.R.L.’s, OMV Bulgaria OOD’s, and OMV Srbija d.o.o.’s OMV branded filling stations; OMV Petrom S.A.’s supply, marketing, and trading activity; and OMV Petrom Gas S.R.L.’s gas supply activity are certified according to ISO 14001.
The OMV New Zealand Pohokura and Maui activities are certified according to ISO 14001.
OMV Tunisia’s operated assets are certified according to ISO 14001 and ISO 50001.
DUNATÀR is certified according to ISO 14001.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 46


The Executive Board members are informed regularly, at least quarterly, about present and upcoming environmental, climate, and energy-related policies and regulations; related developments in the fuels and gas market; the financial implications of CO2 emissions trading obliga- tions; the status of innovation project implementation; and progress on achieving sustainability-related targets. (For a more detailed description of sustainability governance, see Sustainability governance.)
Modernization of the Arad fuel terminal. 
The Arad fuel terminal is the largest in western Romania and the second largest in the country. We invested EUR 19 mn in the terminal with 32,000 m3 storage capacity, equipping it with state-of-the-art technologies that reduce environmental impact, enhance safety, and increase operational efficiency as follows:
Emissions control projects at the Petrobrazi refinery. 
Emissions monitoring and control measures are in place at all refineries. These include emissions measurement and monitoring, minimization of diffuse sources through routine testing programs, and connection of particularly emissions-relevant storage tanks to vapor recovery systems. In 2019, we conducted a modernization project at the Petrobrazi refinery in Romania. The best available technology, a closed blowdown system, was implemented during the upgrade of the coker unit, thus eliminating any potential emissions of volatile organic compounds and reducing odor. In addition, two benzene tanks were modernized with an internal floating membrane, cutting benzene emissions by 99%. Six old tanks were put out of service. We also enhanced the air quality monitoring capacity by installing two stations outside the refinery perimeter that monitor sulfur dioxide (SO2), hydrogen sulfide (H2S), particulate matter (PM), and the volatile organic compounds (VOC) benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylene (BTEX). Monitoring results will be provided to authorities and local communities.
Automated management and automated fuel deliveries. 
Best available fire protection systems. 
Vapor recovery system. 
Double-wall and double-bottom tanks with bunds and overfill protection system for fuel tanks. 
Watertight concrete platforms and wastewater treatment system. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 47


Management of environmental compliance. 
OMV is liable for the impact that our activities have on the environment. Breaching environmental regulations on a national and international level results in both monetary losses and harm to our reputation. Our license to operate depends on compliance with regulations relating to environmental protection, which is also of particular importance to governmental authorities, shareholders, and stakeholders, such as the public and environmental NGOs and NPOs.
In 2019, we recorded only minor fines for environmental breaches, paying no fines above EUR 10,000 in any of our operations.
The OMV Group Environmental Management Standard requires compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, identification of legal and other requirements, development and maintenance of appropriate legal compliance databases, and alignment with internationally accepted best practices as part of our EMS. According to the standard, we must also establish programs to prevent non-compliance to avoid monetary losses. The OMV Group Environmental Management Standard stipulates an assessment of environmental impacts and risks, and adherence to environmental performance requirements in terms of energy use, emissions into the atmosphere, water use and discharge, the use of raw materials, waste management, hazardous substance handling, and biodiversity and ecosystem protection. The OMV Group Environmental Management Standard furthermore defines the process of carrying out Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs). Preventive and mitigation measures and the monitoring program to ensure implementation of the proposed measures are documented in an Environmental and Social Management Plan. The final ESIA report is submitted to the local regulator or lender (whichever is applicable) for review, public disclosure, and approval.
Environmental risks and opportunities include regulatory, operational, reputational, and financial drivers and specifically relate to issues such as climate change, availability and quality of water used for operations, and the impact of energy, climate, and water policies. The management of environment-related risks is part of OMV’s Enterprise-Wide Risk Management (EWRM) activities as described in the Risk and Opportunities Management section.
Digital technologies are used in monitoring and managing environmental risks through a special risk management IT tool – the Active Risk Management System (ARMS). This tool allows us to better integrate environmental risk scenarios with other HSSE and business risks. Identified and assessed risks are controlled and mitigated at all organiza- tional levels thanks to clearly defined risk policies and responsibilities. Strategic risks and opportunities (e.g., related to climate change or water stress) are assessed in a top-down process, while a bottom-up process with a standardized methodology is used to assess environmental aspects, impacts, and risks, including legal compliance risks, in our operations.
The framework and methodology for our coordinated Group-wide Environmental Risk Assessment are based on best practice standards, meet ISO 14001 requirements, and ensure the consistent qualitative assessment of operational risks and impacts related to the environment. The resulting environmental risk database includes information on existing controls for environmental risks and future actions required.
Before undertaking new operational activities or entering new countries, we perform environmental risk assessments, including evaluations of local legislation, the potential impact of our activities on sensitive and protected areas, and the effects on endangered species. Each subsequent phase of project implementation is accompanied by a detailed assessment of environmental risks.
Energy efficiency. 
As an integrated oil and gas company, OMV operates large facilities and is also a major energy consumer. The amount of energy we use creates a significant impact on the environment. Effective management of energy consumption reduces the environmental cost of our operations, increases financial savings thanks to energy efficiency, prevents non-compliance with regulatory requirements on energy use, and mitigates the climate effects of GHG emissions.
Energy efficiency measures therefore have a considerable effect on issues relating to energy consumption of interest to stakeholders:
Governmental authorities: compliance with EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) regulations relating to the submission of emissions allowances within EU ETS, compliance with the EU Energy Efficiency Directive requiring greater energy efficiency in all stages of the energy value chain. 
Shareholders and other stakeholders with a direct financial interest in OMV: financial savings resulting from reduced energy consumption, lower production costs, and lower GHG emissions. 
NGOs/NPOs: reduced impact of our operations on the environment. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 48


The OMV Group Environmental Management Standard requires that all OMV businesses and activities use energy responsibly, conserve primary energy resources, and implement energy management plans in accordance with ISO 50001. The potential for reducing energy use is identified in annual campaigns encouraging improved environmental performance, including energy consumption. For example, we have set targets for refineries to reach certain energy index ratings through annual monitoring campaigns. Based on their energy index rating, we identify and assess areas for improvement in energy efficiency. Subsequently, we decide which measures to implement to improve energy consumption as part of our environmental governance process. (For more information on activities aimed at enhancing environmental performance as part of sustainability governance, see Sustainability governance.)
Energy efficiency activities. 
Energy consumption. 
In PJ 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 137.8 126.8 130.8 127.4 117.4. 
Energy efficiency measures in OMV operations are closely linked with technical improvements directed at reducing energy use while achieving the same operational output. Process optimization and increasing energy efficiency to save costs and reduce CO2 emissions are a strong focus of our refineries. Energy efficiency measures implemented in our three refineries in 2019 led to an annual decrease of more than 27,950 t in CO2 equivalent, and energy savings of 365 TJ. GHG reduction projects implemented in our refineries between 2009 and 2019 have so far delivered a total reduction of 0.7 mn t in CO2 equivalent.
In 2019, within the Downstream Oil division, one of our focus areas was to continue implementation of initiatives for improving GHG intensity.
The Petrobrazi refinery continued to implement measures to reduce energy consumption through programs and initiatives:
The above projects will result in yearly energy savings of around 34,000 GJ and over 2,000 t CO2 equivalent.
Case study: enhanced firing system in cogeneration plant. 
The EUR 75,000 project aimed at installing an efficient and effective technical solution to reduce steam consumption at the gas turbine firing system in the cogeneration unit. Consequently, an annual steam reduction of around 22,000 GJ was achieved, equivalent to a CO2 reduction of around 1,200 t per year.
Spills management. 
Oil spills19 are a critical environmental issue for our industry. Spills management is defined as the prevention of spills in operations and other spills (e.g., caused by sabotage or natural hazards), and the management and remediation of spills resulting from an incident.
Stakeholders with major concerns relating to potential impacts stemming from spills are as follows:
Advanced condensate recovery and reuse. 
Enhanced firing system in cogeneration plant. 
Government authorities: potential breaches of environmental regulations 19 Oil spills are defined as hydrocarbon liquid spills that reach the environment.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 49


Spill prevention. 
Spill prevention and control measures include:
We aim to prevent and reduce oil spills and leakage in our operations at sea as well as on land. Appropriate spill prevention and control plans that account for specific business conditions have been put in place. The majority of our oil spills involve OMV Petrom Upstream, where we concentrate our efforts to safeguard and maintain our infrastructure and to improve the reliability of our facilities.
The remuneration of the Company’s executive management is linked to OMV’s oil spill performance. The number and volume of oil spills constitute a part of the sustainability multiplier that impacts their annual bonus as decided by the Supervisory Board. Hydrocarbon spills are documented and reported using OMV’s incident reporting tool. The data input for the sustainability multiplier, including the number of spills and their volume, is audited externally as part of the scope of the Sustainability Report audit. (More information is provided in the Sustainability governance section.)
Spill remediation. 
Hydrocarbon spills are assessed and cleaned up immediately after their occurrence in accordance with internal procedures governing spill remediation. Leaks are repaired immediately or within defined time frames in accordance with the site’s maintenance processes and based on the risk assessment outcome and other factors, such as feasibility of repair during operation. In order to strengthen our response to and reduce the environmental impact of oil spills, we continued to perform emergency drills, including pollution scenarios.
In 2019, we recorded one major hydrocarbon spill in Romania (2018: two major spills).
In OMV Petrom’s Moldova asset, a tank containing a mixture of salt water and oil leaked due to poor mechanical integrity. Approximately 2 m3 of oil and 18 m3 of salt water leaked onto the ground over an area measuring approximately 200 m². Tank farm operations were stopped, fluids spilled into secondary containment and an underground rainwater sump tank were collected by vacuum trucks, and contaminated soil was excavated and transported to a bioremediation plant.
Total volume of spills. 
In m3 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 158.0 103.5 173.9 36.9 56.6. 
In addition, 2,046 minor releases occurred in 2019 (2018: 2,182). Total hydrocarbon spillage was around 56.6 m3 (2018: around 36.9 m3). Spills and leaks were mainly due to the corrosion of aging infrastructure.
OMV has developed a Corrosion Management Framework (CMF) to provide a proactive and consistent approach to corrosion monitoring and management across the entire OMV Group. Covering the full life cycle of the equipment exposed to the risk of corrosion in both oil and gas facilities from the well to the sales point, this framework encompasses the entire value chain of our business. A team of 30 in-house experts with multidisciplinary and multicultural backgrounds are working to embed CMF principles into everyday operations.
In 2019, we continued to implement the OMV Petrom Pipeline Integrity Management Program, which demonstrated significant results from multi-year data collection and software implementation. Risks are prioritized using the software, thereby ensuring that our pipeline integrity efforts focus on the locations with the greatest need. As a result of the Pipeline Integrity Management Program, OMV Petrom also increased the use of non-metallic pipeline materials in new projects to prevent corrosion and the risk of pipeline-related spills.
The Hazard and Operability (HAZOP) Program at OMV Petrom also continued in 2019, resulting in completion of 25 studies reviewing and updating all of the required technical documentation in order to identify operational risks. 
Employees and contractors: potential health and safety issues arising from accidents and damage to the environment and society. 
NGOs/NPOs: potential damage to the environment and society. 
Society: damage to the surrounding environment. 
Shareholders: direct financial losses due to the costs of remediation measures and reputational risks. 
Hazard identification and risk assessment. 
Preventive measures and maintenance to avoid leaks. 
Emergency response and contingency plans including materials and equipment for spill intervention. 
Cleanup and remediation procedures. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 50


carrying potential hazards for personnel, equipment, or the environment. So far, 225 facilities have participated, and 20 more facilities are scheduled to be included in the HAZOP study in 2020.
Water management. 
OMV Upstream and Downstream operations both affect water resources. OMV uses significant amounts of water for its operations in Upstream as well as in Downstream activities. Freshwater is used, for example, for drilling, steam generation, and cooling, among other processes. Smaller amounts of water are also used for non-industrial purposes. Some water used in operations is recycled back for reinjection to pressurize hydrocarbon reservoirs in order to optimize the extraction rate.
Desalinated water is used in some offshore operations. Refineries and various other operating facilities also use brackish and/or recycled water for various operational purposes. Some of OMV’s operating facilities are located in water-stressed areas.20. 
The key goals of our water management activities are to reduce water consumption, to utilize water resources efficiently, and to treat wastewater appropriately.
Our impact on water resources is material to stakeholders as follows:
Water Ambition Statement. 
The Company’s commitment to water management is based on OMV’s Water Ambition Statement. We respect water as a precious limited resource and focus on its sustainable use.
Government authorities (regulatory and river basin management authorities): compliance with water use rules and environmental parameters relating to wastewater generated. 
Local communities: sharing of local water resources and the quality of discharged wastewater. 
NGOs/NPOs: environmental preservation and water resource conservation. 
Local water utilities: supply of freshwater (for OMV operations)
We are committed to meeting all applicable legislative requirements or our OMV regulations – whichever is more stringent.
Water management is a key component of our social license to operate. We cooperate with local communities and prove to be responsible partners.
We are committed to transparency when it comes to our impact on water resources.
Every OMV employee is responsible for minimizing the impact of our activities on water resources.
20 Water stressed areas are areas where the demand for water exceeds the available amount during a certain period or when poor quality restricts its use. In such areas, water stress causes deterioration of freshwater resources in terms of quantity (aquifer over-exploitation, dry rivers, etc.) and quality (eutrophication, organic matter pollution, saline intrusion, etc.). Source: European Environmental Agency www.eea.europa.eu/themes/water/glossary. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 51


OMV’s Group-wide Water Strategy was developed in 2014 and is based on five strategic pillars:
In line with the great importance of the material topic of water management, we will continue to plan to establish targets to improve water consumption efficiency. For the Sustainability Strategy 2025, however, we have prioritized safety-related targets in the focus area of HSSE. Environment-related targets were incorporated as part of the Carbon Efficiency focus area. OMV’s Water Strategy was reviewed in 2019 and will be revised in 2020.
High-level water stress assessments are conducted on an annual basis. OMV uses international tools and indexes, such as Verisk Maplecroft’s “Water Stress Index” complemented by the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) Aqueduct “Baseline Water Stress” index, as well as own assessments as required, to identify operations in areas affected by water scarcity and water stress. Operating facilities located in places that are affected or are likely to be affected by water scarcity issues and operations utilizing significant water resources (i.e., Tunisia) are prioritized when developing and implementing water management plans. These plans aim to allow sustainable long-term production with minimal effects on the environment. 75% of priority sites have completed water management plans, with the development of plans in progress at the remaining sites.
A bottom-up approach in the assessment of water-related risks is taken in accordance with the OMV’s Group-wide Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) guideline to ensure consistent qualitative assessments of operational risks and impacts related to the environment, including water. Significant risks are integrated into OMV’s Enterprise-Wide Risk Management (EWRM) system.
When entering a new country or considering new operational activities, OMV primarily uses the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) Aqueduct and Verisk Maplecroft indexes to identify future potential water-related constraints, such as baseline water stress, groundwater stress, and seasonal variability.
Freshwater withdrawn. 
In megaliters 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 38,392 1,137 37,590 905 37,178 842 40,148 480 39,251 185. 
Freshwater withdrawn Freshwater withdrawn from all areas with water stress. 
Water-management-related risks are closely linked with the material topic of spill prevention. Offshore operations may lead to oil spills with significant impact on marine water resources and ecosystems. The response strategy aims to minimize the probability of such risks and maximize readiness so that we can provide timely remediation measures in the unlikely event of an oil spill. OMV allocates significant resources to prevention and mitigation measures. Any new or existing offshore drilling activity is accompanied by a third-party analysis evaluating the magnitude of a major event and its possible consequences. As part of the biannual Group-wide EWRM process, waterrelated risks and mitigation measures are assessed in a larger strategic context, while a systematic approach is taken in day-to-day operations to monitoring and managing high-impact/low-probability risks, such as blowouts during offshore drilling.
Rehabilitation of industrial water distribution system at Suplac. 
In 2019, we continued to rehabilitate the industrial water distribution system in four parks (16, 24, 31, and 49) at our Upstream Suplac site Romania. Around 853 meters of new pipe were installed at a cost of around EUR 316,000. Project benefits include avoiding water losses from old water hydrant networks and pipelines, as well as improved safety in operations.
Transparency. 
Risks and opportunities. 
Water efficiency and treatment. 
Training and awareness. 
Stakeholder engagement. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 52


OMV adheres to the requirements laid down in local legislation when setting standards for effluent discharge quality. The OMV Group Environmental Management Standard requires all OMV businesses and activities to minimize the impact of effluents on the environment and local communities and outlines specific requirements for wastewater discharge onshore and offshore. The direct discharge of wastewater on land, in wetlands, or in other bodies of water without prior treatment is not permitted. The standard furthermore stipulates that no discharge may alter or diminish the value of the receiving environment. All discharge must be systematically monitored and any environmental impacts must be managed appropriately.
In areas where OMV operations require large amounts of water, it is particularly important to include local stakeholders in water management activities in order to secure a “social license to operate.” Among the most important stakeholders OMV includes in defining socially equitable, environmentally sustainable, and economically beneficial water management practices are local communities, neighboring industrial facilities, NGOs, regulators, and river basin management authorities.
OMV water management activities pursue socially equitable water use. In our Human Rights Matrix, we commit to ensuring an adequate standard of living, including access to water and food for our employees. This applies not only to our own operations but also to those of our suppliers that sign and commit to following the OMV Code of Conduct. As indicated in the Supply Chain section, OMV regularly carries out supplier audits to ensure compliance with our human rights requirements.
To ensure that the interests of local communities are known and taken into account during the project life cycle, OMV conducts social baseline studies and community needs assessments as part of Social Impact Assessments (SIAs). (For more information on SIAs, see Community Relations and Development.)
Following these assessments, OMV launches community projects aimed at increasing access to clean water for local communities. This partnership with local communities allows them to benefit from OMV’s presence in the region and provide consent for the use of natural water resources in their area. Examples of OMV support for local communities in Libya to water-use-related projects can be found under Community Relations and Development.
Local regulatory and river basin authorities are involved whenever needed to ensure that OMV is in compliance with local environmental regulations and has obtained all of the required permits for freshwater usage and wastewater discharge.
Water efficiency activities. 
In 2019, modernization of the Săcuieni water station in Upstream’s Muntenia asset was completed. This facility ensures fully automated control of the water flow so that water delivery can be finely tuned to water requirements and so that water withdrawal does not exceed water demand. The water station is located in the Ialomița river basin, which experiences water scarcity and water stress risk in dry years according to the Romanian National Institute of Hydrology and Water Management. In addition to minimizing the environmental impact, this upgrade also enables increased reliability of the water supply for production.
In 2019, we continued to evaluate the water risks of the largest water users at OMV Petrom. Water risks were assessed for the Brazi power plant in Downstream and for the Crisana asset in Upstream by using the WWF Water Risk Filter. This takes into account physical criteria, such as water scarcity (determined by considering access to water resources, competing needs, and supply patterns in the region) and water stress (defined by the physical availability of the water resources), as well as compliance and reputational aspects.
Given that some regions where OMV Petrom operates have already experienced water stress in dry years, and the fact that we expect a further decline in water availability, we determined the need to continue implementing measures for efficient water use.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 53


Biodiversity protection. 
According to the OMV Group Environmental Management Standard and Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Procedure, all OMV activities must be conducted in such a way as to cause minimal disturbance to protected areas and local flora and fauna. Observed or predicted direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity and ecosystem services (BES) are described and analyzed in the environmental impact assessment. BES screenings are carried out at all relevant sites to identify as far as reasonably possible the potential for the presence of nationally or globally threatened species, legally protected threatened or fragile ecosystems, and internationally recognized areas with sensitive biodiversity. In the event of significant observed or predicted impacts, we apply the mitigation hierarchy, and action planning gives priority to avoidance and minimization over restoration and offsetting of the impact.
In 2019, we supported the following biodiversity-related projects in New Zealand:
In 2019, OMV Petrom initiated the development of a mobile application to enable employees to easily identify protected species observed within their operational boundaries. This project contributes to improving biodiversity conservation monitoring and increasing awareness on this topic. A partnership with Ngāti Koata and the Department of Conservation for the Moawhitu lake and wetland regeneration project. 
A partnership with the Rotokare Scenic Reserve Trust to reintroduce the endemic hihi bird (stitchbird) back into this reserve located just outside of New Plymouth. 
A partnership with Tiaki Te Mauri o Parininihi Trust in North Taranaki for critical pest control work and providing a safe haven for the endangered kōkako, along with other native wildlife, such as the kiwi. 
A partnership with the National Institute for Water and Atmospheric Research to undertake passive acoustic monitoring to assess cetacean distribution and movement through New Zealand’s Cook Strait. 
A partnership with the Friends of Mana Island to assist with the regeneration of Mana Island to provide a secure ecosystem for endangered species. 
A partnership with Ngāti Tara Sandy Bay Society to restore and protect the native sand dunes, which are home to rare shorebirds, such as the endangered New Zealand dotterels. 
A partnership with Montfort Trimble Foundation (MTF) for a period of three years to fund a project for the regeneration of threatened native mistletoe (Tupeia antarctica) at Rewanui Forest Park, near Masterton. 
A partnership with Environmental Education for Resource Sustainability Trust to fund the Paper4Trees project in Taranaki, a project where local schools and kindergartens are rewarded with native trees for their recycling efforts. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 54


Waste management. 
Our activities generate solid and liquid waste, including hazardous waste, such as oily sludge, waste chemicals, catalysts, and construction debris. Examples of non-hazardous waste include concrete not containing dangerous substances, welding waste, drilling wastes, mud without oil content, as well as mixed municipal waste, paper, and metal.
In 2019, activities operated or majority-owned by OMV generated 633,722 t of waste, 310,453 t of which was hazardous waste and 323,268 t of which was non-hazardous waste. We recovered or recycled 325,298 t and safely disposed of 308,523 t of waste, for an overall waste recovery and recycling rate of 51%.
Within the framework of the 2016–2020 OMV-Gazprom Scientific & Technical Cooperation and Partnership, a threeday workshop on “Best Available Techniques (BAT) in the Oil & Gas Industry” was held in Vienna. A group of OMV and Gazprom experts shared their experience and best practice examples in the field of waste management systems in the EU and Russian Federation as well as drilling waste management in onshore and offshore operations.
We are applying best practices in the management of drilling waste. For example, in our OMV Petrom Upstream Crișana asset, inert drill cuttings resulting from waterbased drilling waste are taken over by a waste management contractor and are used as a stabilization agent for other waste (mostly sludge) along with other stabilization materials (such as cement). The stabilized waste is sub- jected to a leaching test and, depending on the test results, can be used as cover layer in non-hazardous waste landfills.
In our Upstream ventures in Abu Dhabi and Yemen, we launched an “Environmental Cha(lle)nge Week” to discuss challenges and opportunities for a sustainable change in behavior. Employees of OMV and contractors discussed topics such as recycling, zero food waste, zero printing, and the green office.
Decommissioning activities. 
The OMV Group Environmental Management Standard requires that environmental and social components are identified for the entire life cycle of facilities, including decommissioning and abandonment, so that any future adaptation measures are identified and planned for.
In 2019, OMV Petrom Downstream Oil continued to achieve a high waste recovery rate of 97% in the demolition projects completed at fuel terminals and at the Petrobrazi refinery. Around 40,000 t of waste was generated, which was grouped in 14 categories. The largest amount of waste (91%) were clean concrete and mixtures of concrete, bricks, tiles, and ceramic materials, which were crushed and prepared for further use. Around 2,140 t of scrapped metallic ferrous and non-ferrous materials were recycled by authorized companies. Over USD 615,000 was generated from selling the scrapped metallic ferrous and nonferrous materials. The other 8 waste categories were directed to specialized waste facilities for either recovery or disposal.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 55


Carbon Efficiency. 
We recognize climate change as one of the most important global challenges today and acknowledge the goals set forth by the Paris Climate Change Agreement. OMV is fully committed to climate change mitigation and responsible resource management and we aim to find the right industrial-scale solutions for a lower-carbon world. The Carbon Efficiency focus area also covers our contribution to the energy transition. We are a supporter of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We set targets to manage and reduce the carbon footprint of our operations and product portfolio. Reducing greenhouse gases will decrease our environmental impact and have a positive financial impact by ensuring compliance with climate-related regulatory requirements and ensuring the effi- cient use of resources.
Key Figures. 
A– (Leadership) score in CDP. 
Climate Change −9%
Carbon intensity of opera- tions vs. 2018 57% share of natural gas in pro- duction mix. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 56


Climate-related risks and opportunities. 
Climate-change-related risks and opportunities are integrated into OMV’s Enterprise-Wide Risk Management (EWRM) process aimed at identifying, assessing, and managing business-related risks. The short- and medium-term risks are analyzed for their impact on the Company’s threeyear financial plan. The effects of long-term risks are evaluated based on a semi-quantitative analysis, taking into account a wider range of uncertainty. We see climate change having a limited impact on our business plans and objectives in the medium term (five-year horizon). However, management pays close attention to climatechange-related long-term risks and opportunities and takes these into account in strategic decision-making.
Risks are identified in a bottom-up approach by the employees responsible for our day-to-day business, and in a top-down approach by the corporate units responsible for monitoring regulatory, market, and reputational risks in line with the latest national and international developments. These risks are assessed in terms of their potential impact on the medium-term financial performance plan.
In the bottom-up approach, climate-change related risks are identified using OMV’s environmental risk management method, which is in conformity with ISO 14001, the standardized methodology of the EWRM process. (For more details on EWRM, see Risk and Opportunities Management.)
The following climate-change-related risks and opportunities are taken into account on this basis:
Physical risks Periods of low or no precipitation on surface or subsurface water supplies would lead to inability to access water for the normal operations (internal consumption) in areas of low water availability. Intensified water scarcity due to changes in precipitation, more frequent drought periods, and increased water stress, could be a long-term risk to OMV Upstream exploration and production activities, e.g., in Tunisia and other countries in the Middle East and Africa region as well as in Romania, which are already experiencing a certain level of water stress.
Transition risks Potential future restrictions on the carbon intensity of feedstocks, political and security risks in the countries of origin of our feedstock, and any other supply limitations pose a threat to sufficient refinery feedstock supply.
There is a risk of imbalance between certificates allocated and Company-required emissions volumes, resulting in higher costs, generated by the uncertainties about the allowance demand and abatement costs.
The risk of decarbonization policies forces OMV to operate on a net carbon-neutral basis. Current and emerging regulations in line with international public-sector initiatives, such as the Paris Agreement, and their subsequent transposition into national law in the countries in which OMV operates result in limits on GHG emissions by the energy industry. This process of decarbonization will change the energy mix and will lead to a reduced demand for fossil fuels with a high carbon content.
There is a risk that demand for refined fuels may decrease due to less carbon-intense substitute products coming onto the market. Emissions regulations, energy efficiency regulations, and regulations on the increased share of renewables in the energy mix are expected to result in a 5% decrease in gasoline and diesel production in our European core markets, and to a 51% decrease in our heavy products production by 2025.
Potential regulatory limitation of flaring of associated gas will affect OMV assets that still have continuous flaring and venting practices in place, e.g., in Yemen, Romania, and Tunisia.
Reputational risks stem from the increasing number of investors who include a company’s environmental and social responsibility as a high-weight criterion in their investment decision-making process. This can be for reasons of internal policy or due to regulatory pressure for public investment transparency regarding sustainability issues.
Transition opportunities Decarbonization will create opportunities for OMV based on the increased demand for lower- or zerocarbon fuel (natural gas, CNG, LNG, hydrogen) and higher-value products generated from hydrocarbons, such as petrochemicals. We expect a 12% increase in petrochemicals production by 2025 (as compared to 2016).
A key opportunity for OMV when it comes to the supply chain and/or value chain is to supply refineries with innovative feedstock.
We identify the risks and opportunities stemming from climate-change-related issues and evaluate their impact on our business in the short, medium, and long term.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 57


Climate-related business resilience and the energy transition. 
OMV aligns the boundaries and time horizons of its business strategy with the foreseen short-, medium-, and longterm risks and impacts of climate-related policies and energy sector developments. Scenarios consistent with the goal of limiting the global temperature increase to no more than 2°C by reducing greenhouse gas emissions are of utmost importance for our strategic considerations as they imply fundamental changes to the current energy market. We are aware of the potential risk of stranded assets if we cannot fully exploit our reserves due to surpassing the global carbon budget. During the strategy development and planning processes, OMV has taken into account scenarios reflecting various aspects of potential economic, technological, and social developments and their implications for the energy market and, consequently, for our business. The results of our analysis have shown what impact different national and international emissions targets will have on the passenger and freight fleet in Europe and OMV core markets. This influenced OMV’s business objectives and strategy.
OMV currently still uses the International Energy Agency (IEA) Stated Policies (SP) Scenario, given that it incorporates current and announced (not yet fully realized) policies, targets, and plans. Based on the IEA SP Scenario, we projected the development of the oil and gas demand in Europe and in the OMV core markets up to 2025. The results of the analysis show an expected increase in petrochemical and jet fuel production volumes and a decrease in gasoline, diesel, and heating and fuel oil volumes. In general, according to the IEA SP Scenario, changing demand will lead to a less carbon-intensive fuel mix.
The IEA 450 Scenario and Sustainable Development Scenario21 were used by OMV as a downside sensitivity option to determine how the existing and future OMV business portfolio would perform in such a business scenario.
OMV’s inherent drive to contribute to a sustainable energy system – today and beyond – has already led to innovative and successfully implemented projects. In the interest of building on this strong foundation and enabling OMV to spearhead the energy transition toward a climate-friendly energy system, the Executive Board decided to establish the new function called New Energy Solutions (NES) in 2019. NES will focus on Group-wide portfolio management, an effective ideation and project maturity process as well as promoting an encouraging corporate culture. The Group-wide strategic aim of NES is to reduce the carbon footprint of OMV’s existing business and in parallel to develop innovative energy solutions. This dual approach takes into account the expectations of political and public stakeholders while ensuring sustainable business success. It also secures OMV’s social license to operate in line with the expectations of the Paris Climate Change Agreement.
We are taking the following steps to manage our portfolio to ensure that our business remains resilient even under stricter legislation and in view of a changing mix in global energy demand:
Increasing our focus on gas products. 
We are designing our product portfolio for lower carbon intensity stepping up our sales of natural gas, CNG and LNG, to be prepared for the growing demand for these products (for more details, see Focus on gas products and Focus on future mobility).
Increasing our focus on petrochemicals. 
We are increasing our focus on petrochemicals and exploring the suitability of plastic waste for producing synthetic crude on a commercial basis, thereby addressing key future trends, such as the circular economy. Substituting post-consumer plastics for crude oil is estimated to reduce CO2 emissions by 45% and lower energy demand by 20% per t of the product (for more details, see Circular Economy).
Exploring opportunities for innovative lowcarbon products and other solutions. 
We are researching alternative feedstocks and intensifying our focus on the production of sustainable biofuels by way of Co-Processing (for more details, see Biogenic Oil CoProcessing). The high degree of integration within OMV refineries reduces greenhouse gas emissions from Co-Processing by up to 85% compared with the EU standard for similar finishing steps for biofuels. In addition, we are researching and exploring new technologies, such as hydrogen solutions (for more details, see Hydrogen). Furthermore, we are looking into carbon reduction and abatement technologies, such as carbon capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS), and have started a CCS pilot project in Austria. We are also building up our own renewable power portfolio for captive use as a cost-effective way to decarbonize Scope 1 and 2 emissions. For example, OMV is building a photovoltaic plant in Austria, which will be the largest photovoltaic plant in Austria, generating 14,200 MWh of power annually.
21 The 450 Scenario takes into account policies which put the world on a path consistent with having around a 50% chance of limiting the global increase in average temperature to 2°C in the long term, compared with pre-industrial levels. The Sustainable Development Scenario – introduced by IEA for the first time in the World Energy Outlook (WEO) 2017 and derived from the UN Sustainable Development Goals – outlines an integrated approach to achieving internationally agreed objectives on climate change, air quality, and universal access to modern energy. (www.iea.org)
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 58


Setting an internal carbon price and including carbon reduction in financial steering. 
As early as 2015, we introduced an internal carbon price to test our investment decisions. Using the carbon price, we run sensitivity analyses of project financials with increased operating expenses (OPEX) from carbon costs. The internal carbon price allows us to factor the hypothetical carbon costs into our investment estimates and the engineering designs of projects. Such analyses protect the value of our new investments under future scenarios with increased carbon costs and increase business resilience to potential changes in climate-related taxes or trading programs. They also increase the transparency of additional economic incentives for carbon emissions reduction initiatives. The internal carbon price system is currently under review in terms of the internal carbon price levels applied and strategic management. In 2019, OMV introduced riskadjusted return expectations in its financial steering model for carbon reduction projects as well as new energy solution projects.
Pursuing low-cost Upstream production with a gas focus. 
OMV’s Upstream business generates profitable growth through its high-quality portfolio, while remaining focused on cash generation. Our current production mix is 57% gas and 43% oil. By 2025, the share of gas is projected to increase to more than 65%. Portfolio growth is achieved through acquisitions in low-cost, hydrocarbon-rich regions, as well as through organic exploration and investments. Our exploration focus is on near-field, short-cycle finds. Average production costs will be below USD 8/boe.
Operating an integrated value chain with flexibility. 
OMV operates international Upstream and Downstream assets. OMV’s fuels and petrochemicals enable mobility, provide heat for living and working, and form the basis for a variety of plastics and high-end petrochemical products used every day. OMV’s vertical integration establishes a strategic natural hedge against oil price volatility. OMV generates material and sustainable cash flows and has proven to be resilient in a volatile market environment. It also has the ability to capture attractive opportunities in two different segments as well as in various markets.
Carbon intensity of energy supply. 
In gCO2/MJ 60 65 70 75 80 2014 2019 Forecast 2020. 
Forecast 2025 2018 74.0 68.6 69.5 66.6 70.0. 
The carbon intensity of energy supply is measured by assessing the intensity of their Scope 1 and 2 emissions plus Scope 3 emissions (in g CO2) from use of sold energy products, against the total energy value of all externally sold energy products (in MJ).
GHG intensity of OMV product portfolio (Scope 3)
In mn t CO2 equivalent. 
Oil to energy (e.g. transportation fuels)
Oil to non-energy (e.g. petrochemicals)
Gas to non-energy (e.g. methanol) 68.2 2 0.01 41.8 119.8 mn t CO2. 
Chemicals. 
Gas to energy (e.g. LNG for transport) 7.7. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 59


Carbon Efficiency of operations Reducing emissions from operations is an important strategic target for OMV, demonstrating our commitment to this material sustainability topic. Our carbon efficiency agenda focuses on process optimization, energy efficiency, and delivering projects that reduce our direct GHG emissions.
Management of Carbon Efficiency of operations. 
Management of carbon efficiency in operations is incorporated into the sustainability governance process, as described in Sustainability governance. The Executive Board approves carbon-related goals as part of the Sustainability Strategy. It also approves the Health, Safety, Security, and Environment (HSSE) Strategy, which reflects climate change targets, such as zero routine flaring by 2030. The current Sustainability Strategy and HSSE Strategy are defined for the period up to 2025.
As we achieved our 2025 target ahead of schedule, we will define new targets in 2020.
Sustainability Strategy 2025 target Reduce the carbon intensity of OMV’s operations22 by 19% by 2025 (vs. 2010)
Status 2019. 
Action plan to achieve the target. 
GHG emissions reduction in operations. 
In 2019, carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), and nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions levels directly related to our operations (Scope 1) totaled 10.6 mn t CO2 equivalent (2018: 11.1 mn t CO2 equivalent). The other GHGs are not relevant to our business and therefore have not been included in our figures.
Scope 1 emissions 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 12.2 11.0 11.1 11.1 10.6. 
Reduction of 22% achieved by 2019 (vs. 2010)
Upstream Business Segment phasing out routine flaring and venting. 
Energy efficiency improvements in OMV Upstream and in refineries. 
Fugitive methane emissions reduction through field modernization and integrity improvement measures in OMV Petrom Upstream 22 CO2 equivalent emissions produced to generate a certain business output using the following business-specific metric (Upstream: t CO2 equivalent/toe produced, refineries: t. 
CO2 equivalent/t throughput, power: t CO2 equivalent/MWh produced) consolidated into an OMV Group Carbon Intensity Operations Index, based on weighted average of the business segments’ carbon intensity. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 60


In 2019, we continued implementing greenhouse gas reduction projects with an annual reduction of around 154.5 kt CO2 equivalent. All GHG reduction projects implemented in our operating countries between 2009 and 2019 have delivered a total reduction of 1.8 mn t CO2 equivalent to date. Reduction of carbon intensity in operations is mainly due to the implementation of projects directed at the reduction of flaring and venting.
Routine flaring reduction efforts. 
Phasing out routine flaring is one of the essential steps toward combining resource efficiency with long-term economic success and a way to strongly support our efforts to reduce the carbon footprint of our operations. In 2019, OMV routine flaring was 501.4 mn m3. In 2017, to reinforce our clear commitment to responsible resource management and sustainable business, we also endorsed the World Bank’s “Zero routine flaring by 2030” initiative to end the routine flaring of associated gas during oil production by 2030. We report annually to the World Bank on our progress in adherence to this initiative.
New OMV oil and gas fields are developed and operated according to plans that incorporate sustainable utilization or conservation of the field’s associated gas without routine flaring. Existing sites where routine flaring of associated and free gas still takes place are required to develop a phase-out plan to eliminate legacy routine flaring as soon as possible, but no later than 2030.
Many activities and projects to stop or reduce routine flaring have already been implemented or are ongoing, such as the Energy Efficiency Program in OMV Petrom Upstream. All OMV operations are required to minimize methane emissions from point sources as well as fugitive emissions and technically unavoidable emissions (such as well testing and well workover, among others). The main sources of methane emissions are routine/non-routine venting of gas during oil and gas production and processing as well as gas leaks.
Sustainability Strategy 2025 target Achieve zero routine flaring and venting of associated gas by 2030. 
Status 2019. 
Action plan to achieve the target. 
The amount of hydrocarbons flared or vented in Upstream has been reduced by 37% vs. 2010.
Prepare and approve routine flaring phase-out plans. 
Continue with ongoing flaring and venting reduction projects. 
Systematically monitor and report on GHG performance. 
Report our progress on routine flaring phase-out in conjunction with OMV’s commitment to the World Bank. 
Main projects contributing to this target will be effective 2020 onward.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 61


Methane emissions are monitored or estimated and controlled systematically by leak detection and repair programs. The identification of methane emissions sources serves as the basis for developing methane reduction projects in accordance with best practice in the industry and the best available technologies. Knowing the main potential sources of methane emissions also allows us to implement precautionary measures for preventing such emissions in new production assets.
Methane emissions. 
In kt 71 55 49 2016 2017 2018 2019 39 45 2015. 
The minimum requirement for identifying leaks is conducting routine audio, visual, and olfactory inspections as part of daily operator rounds at all relevant OMV operating facilities. Leak detection also entails soap-bubble testing and optical gas imaging with defined scopes and intervals (annually or more frequently, as required in accordance with a related risk assessment). At some facilities, infrared cameras are also used for leak detection.
GHG emissions reduction in Upstream and in refineries. 
We implemented various activities in our Upstream and Downstream Business Segments directed at reducing GHG emissions. For example, significant reduction of venting and fugitive methane emissions is achieved in the OMV Petrom Upstream business thanks to modernization of transportation infrastructure, replacement, and optimization, which led to a significant reduction of accidental venting and also to the reduction of gas consumption (e.g., Merişani and Vâlcele compressor stations in the Muntenia Vest asset, gas networks monitoring in the Moesia asset, new production facilities in Mădulari in the Oltenia asset, improved gas pipelines infrastructure in the Crișana Banat and Muntenia Vest assets).
In refineries, optimal plant design is implemented in order to minimize flaring events by balancing the fuel gas system. Such advanced process control includes sufficient capacity of the flare gas recovery system, the use of highintegrity relief valves, and other economically viable organizational and control measures. As a result of such measures, we aim to use flaring as a safety system for other than normal operations, such as start-up, shutdown, emergency, process upsets, and others.
Upstream – gas treatment plant at Hurezani. 
Between 2010 and 2019, Upstream developed a centralized gas treatment hub in the Oltenia asset to serve domestic gas production in south-eastern Romania. The latest stage of the project started in 2017, amounted to EUR 50 mn, focused on the development of a new efficient gas treatment process – Centralized Hydrocarbon Dewpoint (CHD) Hurezani –, and also addressed the modernization of Compressor Station Hurezani Area 2. The project features the installation of gas treatment units and pipeline infrastructure, thus completing the overall gas compression and treatment chain. The facilities modernized in 2019 increase energy efficiency and reduce GHG emissions by around 9,230 t of CO2 equivalent per year.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 62


Indirect GHG emissions from electricity and heat. 
In 2019, our indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions, which relate to purchased electricity and heat, accounted for only 0.3% of our total GHG emissions. Our Scope 2 emissions are primarily caused by the Upstream and Downstream Business Segments, both of which are energy intensive.
OMV is paving the way to reduce emissions from energy required for its operations and promote self-sufficiency of energy supply at our production sites, preferably with energy from renewable sources. We therefore committed to a strategic partnership with VERBUND – Austria’s leading electricity company and one of the largest hydro- power producers in Europe – aimed at evaluating and implementing power generation and power storage activities and power-to-X facilities. Our first joint project in this field is building Austria’s largest ground-mounted solar park at the OMV site in Lower Austria. The solar park will provide 14.2 GWh of electricity, which is equivalent to powering 5,500 households a year. This will lead to saving 12,000 t of CO2 per year. This agreement continues our cooperation with VERBUND that began in 2017, when OMV acquired a 40% stake in the e-mobility provider SMATRICS, in which VERBUND holds 40% and Siemens holds 20%. (For more details, see Electromobility.) Another important area of our cooperation is green hydrogen development – evaluating a possible electrolytic hydrogen production facility. (For more details, see Hydrogen.)
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 63


Carbon Efficiency of the product portfolio. 
In 2019, our Scope 3 emissions were around 126 mn t CO2 equivalent (2018: 108 mn t CO2 equivalent) and are related to total product sales volumes as well as purchased goods and services and capital goods of all our fully consolidated companies. While our absolute GHG emissions increased due to our business growth, our emissions intensity remained stable as we primarily grew our gas portfolio, with increased gas sales in Downstream as well as in Upstream due to the acquisition in New Zealand and SapuraOMV.
GHG Scope 3 emissions. 
In mn t CO2 equivalent 112 113 126 2016 2017 2018 2019 109 108 2015. 
GHG intensity of the product portfolio. 
In mn t GHG per mn t oil equivalent 2.7 2.7 2.5 2016 2017 2018 2019 2.6 2.5 2015. 
About 87% of OMV’s products are directly used for combustion. Scope 3 emissions from the use and processing of our products as well as from purchased goods and services and capital goods therefore constitute around 92% of our impact in terms of GHG emissions.23. 
The development of low-carbon products to reduce this large impact therefore is a topic material for stakeholders and for OMV. In this regard, we have developed strategic targets to reduce the carbon footprint of our product portfolio.
Responsible use of natural resources means not only producing and processing them efficiently but also maximizing their value for society. For crude oil, this translates into finding long-lasting high-tech applications for hydrocarbons rather than burning them as a fuel. It is OMV’s ambition to strengthen its European downstream position through a shift to higher-value-added products, such as petrochemical products. (For more information on the activities of OMV in the petrochemical sector, see Focus on petrochemicals.)
Management of Carbon Efficiency of the product portfolio. 
The OMV Strategy team and subject-matter experts analyzed decarbonization policy developments and stricter emissions standards across the globe and determined that this will lead to the flattening of demand for oil products in the long term. OMV aligns the product portfolio business strategy with such forecasted developments. For example, European demand for natural gas will likely overtake demand for oil in relative and absolute terms by 2030, while regional hydrocarbon extraction is expected to decline. This caused us to focus on preparing the required infrastructure for natural gas delivery and capturing a greater share of natural gas supply.
At the same time, another trend – road transportation decarbonization – led OMV to increase its focus on fuels that function as an alternative to oil and gas. OMV’s Future Mobility team continuously analyzes developments in the alternative transportation sector and develops risk mitigation measures to prepare the Company for a transition to non-hydrocarbon fuels by exploring further development of electromobility and hydrogen.
23 We take into account the impact of the products sold by OMV to external customers and on the market. Intracompany sales between OMV subsidiaries are not taken into account in order to avoid double-counting GHG emissions from products and services.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 64


Sustainability Strategy 2025 target Reduce the carbon intensity of OMV’s product portfolio24 by 4% by 2025 (vs. 2010)
Status 2019. 
Action plan to achieve the target. 
Focus on gas products. 
Worldwide demand for gas is anticipated to continue to grow beyond 2030. The phase-out of coal and nuclear power in the electricity sector will increase demand for safer and more climate-friendly gas in the European market. Therefore, OMV has been consistently increasing the share of natural gas in production and aims for gas to account for more than 65% of the production portfolio and for increased natural gas sales in Europe. Through this emphasis on natural gas, the fossil fuel with the lowest carbon intensity, OMV can reduce the carbon intensity of our energy system today and enhance the viability of operations in the long term.
Production split 2010 2025e 54% ~35% 2019 43% 57% >65%
Gas Oil 46%
In 2019, gas production accounted for 57% (2018: 57%) of total Upstream production. Gas production amounted to 101.8 mn boe in 2019 (2018: 89.5 mn boe).
In 2019, the Larak gas development project came on stream in Malaysia, and the Nawara gas development and pipeline project in Tunisia is scheduled to start production in 2020. The divestment of the Maari field shifts OMV in New Zealand to a gas-only producer and reduces emissions from Upstream operations by 280,000 t CO2 equi- valent per year. This reinforces OMV’s strategy to place the focus on natural gas production rather than oil.
Total gas sales in Downstream Gas amounted to 136.7 TWh (2018: 113.8 TWh). OMV increased its market share in Germany to 4%, with plans to achieve 10% by 2025. We also started gas sales activities in the Netherlands and reached a market share of 2% in 2019.
OMV actively advocates for the increased use of gas in power generation and mobility in the transition phase.
Reduction of 4% achieved by 2019 (vs. 2010)
Reduce the carbon footprint of OMV’s product portfolio by increasing the gas-to-oil ratio in Upstream production, increasing gas sales in Europe, and shifting to higher-valueadded petrochemical products, which in combination with recycling of the plastics used will increase resource efficiency 24 The carbon intensity of OMV’s product portfolio measures the CO₂ equivalent emissions generated by the use of OMV’s products sold to third parties in t CO₂ equivalent/toe sold.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 65


Replacing lignite-fired power plants with gas reduces CO2 emissions by 50%. For example, OMV Petrom’s combinedcycle gas-fired power plant in Romania produced 1.26 mn t of GHG emissions emissions in 2019. If it were lignite fired, it would have produced 2.5 mn t of GHG emissions instead.
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) is currently the only available alternative fuel for long-distance trucks, buses, and ships. Natural gas vehicles (NGVs) provide a cleaner mobility alternative with up to 23% less CO2, 75% less nitrogen oxide, and 98% fewer particulate emissions.
Gas (natural gas, biomethane, hydrogen, and synthetic methane) supports the integration of renewable energies. That is why OMV is actively exploring options with partners for taking the key power-to-gas technology to an industrial scale. With power-to-gas, wind and solar energy can be stored as hydrogen, and sector coupling becomes a reality. Separate gas and electrical grids have the potential to become one energy cloud with fluid transitions.
Since natural gas is a clean, safe, and readily available alternative fuel for transportation, OMV is assessing the options for intensifying its gas-mobility activities (for more details, see Focus on future mobility).
Emission savings with natural gas (CNG and LNG) vs. gasoline and diesel (Euro 6)
CO2 well-to-wheel. 
CNG. 
Gasoline. 
LNG. 
Diesel. 
Particulate matter Nitrogen oxide (NOx)
CO2 well-to-wheel Noise Nitrogen oxide (NOx) −23% −98% −75% −50% −50% −15%
Sources: thinkstep, EMPA, Volkswagen, Equilibre. 
In 2019, we began offering our customers the option of procuring climate-neutral gas. Through our cooperation with Climate Partner, we are able to offer our customers a carbon-offsetting service for emissions generated during the consumption of gas. In 2019, we were able to offset approximately 30,000 t of CO2 thanks to climate-neutral gas contracts for upcoming delivery years. We have defined a rigorous set of criteria and standards for the selection of climate protection projects to ensure optimal emissions offsetting verification. For instance, the technologies we selected for climate protection in our projects are wind power and forest protection. Climate protection projects are verified according to the internationally recognized standards for voluntary emissions reduction, the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) and the Gold Standard (GS).
OMV operates gas infrastructure (pipeline and storages) in Austria and Germany which are essential for ensuring the security of supply in our markets. The gas infrastructure will also play an essential role in cost-effectively making the shift toward carbon-neutral gas solutions (synthetic gas, biomethane, and hydrogen) and an integrated energy system.
Natural gas is an important alternative as a lower-carbon fuel for industry. However, industrial users also value the gas provided by OMV for the security of supply. For example, NÖM, a large Austrian producer of dairy products, uses gas supplied by OMV for generating steam used for heating up fresh milk in the pasteurization process. Gas provides a great lower-CO2 alternative to coal- or oil-heated steam boilers. With a processing capacity of 1.2 mn liters of milk a day (45% of which ends up in products that are exported), NÖM needs an uninterrupted supply of gas. NÖM is confident that it can rely on OMV to supply its gas.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 66


In total, OMV invested EUR 295 mn in the development of gas assets in 2019 (2018: EUR 198 mn).
Focus on future mobility. 
OMV provides various solutions suited to different types of transportation, including successfully reducing CO2 emissions for short-distance passenger transportation as well as for long-haul heavy-duty transportation. Whereas battery-powered electric vehicles present a suitable option in the first case, natural gas and hydrogen would present a more efficient option for the latter. Directly and through its partnerships, OMV offers a number of options for lowercarbon transportation, electricity, compressed natural gas (CNG), liquefied natural gas (LNG), and hydrogen. In 2019,
OMV invested EUR 1 mn (2018: EUR 1 mn) in future mobility assets.
Retail 2019 62 121 94 557 81 199 140 94 !"# 301 9 H2 428 9. 
CNG 6
5 H2 54 CNG 30 16 4
1 6. 
CNG 1. 
Austria. 
Germany. 
Serbia. 
Bulgaria. 
Moldova. 
Romania. 
Hungary. 
Slovakia. 
Czech Republic. 
Slovenia. 
Number of filling stations with e-charging points. 
Number of CNG filling stations. 
Number of Hydrogen filling stations. 
Number of filling stations. 
Electromobility. 
Currently, 201 e-charging points are available at 58 OMV filling stations in Austria, Germany, Hungary, Romania, and Slovenia. Around 300 charging points at 150 additional locations are planned to be rolled out in 2020. We continue to develop our charging network via numerous partnerships and joint ventures. Through our 40% interest in SMATRICS, Austria’s leading e-mobility infrastructure provider, OMV is part of a SMATRICS-operated network of more than 435 e-charging points, powered 100% by renewable energy. By way of our strategic partnership with IONITY – a joint venture of car manufacturers – we support the construction of a network of 350 kW ultra-fast charging stations throughout Europe, with 13 already opened in Austria. In 2019, we started rolling out 150 kW electric vehicle charging at OMV filling stations in southern Germany in cooperation with EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG, one of the leading energy providers in Germany.
OMV intends to take its commitment to electric vehicles to the next level by continuing to develop its e-mobility offerings. International roaming will be activated on the OMV ROUTEX e-mobility card, and customer-focused development of additional products will continue.
Compressed Natural Gas (CNG)
OMV is promoting CNG and LNG products on the supply and on the demand side at the same time. This approach establishes suitable infrastructure on the supply side as well as customer readiness to receive the product. Such an approach is the precondition for the successful implementation of new energy solutions, leading to the development of related products and the reduction of production costs.
In 2019, our CNG sales volumes grew by 4.6%, to 1,954 t (2018: 1,868 t).
14 hydrogen filling stations in Europe, thereof five in Austria. 
In 2018, OMV and IONITY opened Austria’s first four 350 kW charging stations. The aim is to build a network of 350 kW ultra-fast charging stations throughout Europe. In 2019, nine new stations were equipped with high-power charging infrastructure from our regional partners.
69 CNG filling stations in Europe, thereof 54 in Austria. 
First LNG filling station planned for 2020. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 67


OMV will invest up to EUR 10 mn in the CNG network, with plans to upgrade the existing dispensers and expand the network in accordance with customer needs. This investment will extend the current OMV network of 54 CNG filling stations in Austria. We are also in the process of changing our fleet of company cars to CNG vehicles.
In 2019, Rainer Seele and Hans Peter Schützinger, CEO of Porsche Holding Salzburg, announced a joint effort to put more CNG on the road. Together, OMV and Porsche Holding are offering a special deal for those considering a CNG vehicle: Every buyer of a CNG-powered model of one of Volkswagen’s brands (VW, Audi, SEAT, or ŠKODA) can fill up with CNG for free at OMV filling stations for the entire first year.25 We believe that this initiative will increase popularity of CNG-fueled vehicles, and thus promote the transition to lower-carbon fuels.
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG)
According to the analysis by the Natural & bio Gas Vehicle Association (NGVA Europe) and the European Biogas Association (EBA), which published the Roadmap to 2030, LNG trucks are expected to increase to 280,000 in Europe by 2030. The growing popularity of this fuel is attributable to the benefits of lower CO2 and particulate matter emissions as well as less noise. We are preparing to expand the requisite infrastructure and supply of LNG in order to meet future expected demand.
In 2019, OMV signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Snam and TAG on collaboration in the field of sustainable LNG mobility. The MoU lays out the intention to jointly explore potential opportunities in the field of sustainable LNG mobility in Austria, such as the construction of a small-scale LNG liquefaction plant, the framework for a later LNG supply agreement, and the development of an LNG market.
In Turkey, OMV already holds a significant share in the small-scale LNG business, supplying around 400 customers.
Hydrogen. 
With five hydrogen fuel stations in Austria, OMV is the first company to offer nationwide coverage. We also have nine hydrogen fuel stations in Germany. We are a shareholder in H2 MOBILITY Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG, which intends to build a filling station network enabling travel with hydrogen-fueled vehicles throughout Germany by 2023. In 2020, there will be 100 stations operating. OMV will continue to conduct pilot projects with industry partners in order to develop a business model for the crosssector use of hydrogen gas (H2). The aim is to establish hydrogen as a pathway for carbon-neutral mobility, in particular in the freight and public sectors. We will also advocate for the use of H2 for balancing the electricity grid in view of the increasing strain from intermittent renewable electricity sources. Currently, OMV is engaged in several pilot projects, including the UpHy project, which involves the production of hydrogen for use in the mobility sector and in the refining process.
25 Valid for annual mileage of 15,000 km; offer valid until revocation. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 68


Focus on petrochemicals. 
Responsible use of natural resources means not only producing and processing them efficiently but also maximizing their value for society. For crude oil, this translates into finding long-lasting high-tech applications for hydrocarbons rather than burning them as a fuel. Products that are made on the basis of petrochemical products, such as ethylene, propylene, and butadiene, are largely used in our daily life.
It is OMV’s ambition to strengthen its European downstream position through a shift to higher-value-added products, such as petrochemical products. This move, in combination with recycling of post-consumer plastics, is an important way to make better use of valuable natural resources.
OMV operates two petrochemical sites – Burghausen (Germany) and Schwechat (Austria) – with a total annual capacity of 2.5 mn t, out of which 80% is olefins. OMV produces olefins, aromatics, and butadiene at its major integrated production sites in Schwechat and Burghausen, as well as a small volume of aromatics and propylene in Petrobrazi (Romania).
Economic development will drive a significant increase in the demand for petrochemical products. Demand for olefins, such as ethylene, propylene, butadiene, and benzene, are expected to increase by 41% by 2028.
Global petrochemical demand. 
In mn toe. 
Ethylene. 
Butadiene. 
Propylene. 
Benzene 2019 2025 2028 331 161 110 12 49 206 145 14 60 227 160 15 64 425 466. 
Source: IHS – Chemical Supply & Demand (2019)
OMV’s Downstream refining segment can maximize on this opportunity by providing the feedstock for high-quality petrochemical products. Petrochemicals already make up more than 10% of OMV’s total refined product sales. OMV mainly produces ethylene and propylene, which are further converted into polyethylene and polypropylene at Borealis, a company in which OMV is a shareholder. By 2025, OMV plans to increase the production of petrochemicals in Europe by 12%, bringing it to 2.8 mn t. Increasing the share of petrochemicals in our product portfolio will reduce its carbon intensity, as the use of petrochemical products does not produce CO2 emissions in contrast to the use of combusted fuel products. In 2019, petrochemicals sales volumes amounted to 2.34 mn t (2018: 2.41 mn t).
In 2019, OMV invested EUR 35 mn (2018: EUR 17 mn) in petrochemical assets. Notably in 2019, we made the decision to invest EUR 64 mn in the construction of an ISO C4 plant. Construction of the new plant began in summer 2019 at the Burghausen refinery, with operations planned to start in September 2020. From this point onward, highpurity isobutene will be produced in Burghausen using a brand-new technology. This will be a highly energy-efficient process, enabling CO2 emissions savings of 20,000 t (based on an annual production of 60,000 t isobutene). Isobutene is part of the C4 hydrocarbons group and is produced from crude oil components by means of thermal cracking. The isobutene produced will complement the current OMV product portfolio and will be used for manufacturing glues, grease, and other chemicals, such as antioxidants, as well as in the manufacturing of vitamin C.
OMV owns a 36% share in Borealis ‒ a leading provider of polyolefins, which form the basis of many valuable plastic applications. The partnership between OMV and Borealis for the petrochemical integration of OMV refineries goes back as far as 1998. We share an industrial site in Schwechat (Austria), which is one of the largest integrated plastics production sites in Europe. The OMV Schwechat refinery operates integrated petrochemical production facilities and supplies Borealis with petrochemical feedstock. OMV produces mainly ethylene and propylene, which are further converted into polyethylene and polypropylene at Borealis. Thus, Borealis constitutes an important part of the OMV value chain. Since 2016, Borealis has acquired two recycling plants in Germany and Austria, thus incorporating recycling capabilities into its business activities. Through the exploration of synergies, OMV supports plastics collection and recycling activities.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 69


Oil as a raw material: premium materials and components for important petrochemical products used in everyday life. 
Use of petrochemicals. 
Transportation. 
Automotive, aerospace, rail, marine, lightweight. 
Health care. 
Hearing aids, prosthetics, plastic pill capsules. 
Energy. 
Efficient insulation, renewable energy. 
Construction. 
Piping and cabling, insulation. 
Electronics. 
Efficiency, lightweight, fire safety, electrical and mechanical resistance. 
Packaging. 
The lightest packaging material, food, conservation and preservation, convenient and innovative, safe and hygienic. 
Focus on product responsibility. 
OMV assumes responsibility for delivering safe highquality products. At the same time, we continuously work on exploring ways to reduce our environmental impact during our product life cycle. We take a comprehensive approach to product stewardship, with technologically advanced solutions used to deliver safe top-quality products, while taking action to ensure responsible use of our products.
We have established adequate processes and workflows to secure our compliance with the EU regulations on Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals (REACH) and on Classification, Labeling, and Packaging (CLP) of substances and mixtures. Within this continuously evolving regulatory environment, we are committed to maintaining and updating our mandatory registrations so as to keep up with relevant regulatory developments. To this end, we closely follow the guidance published by the European Chemicals Agency and participate in the REACH consortia (Concawe, Lower Olefins and Aromatics, Fuel Ethers, Renewable Fuels, etc.) as well as in working groups through oil and chemical industry trade associations. Safety data sheets are available on www.omv.com/en/ products/online-tools/product-information. These documents are regulated under REACH and include comprehensive information on potential health, safety, and environmental issues. In addition, they inform customers and employees about how to handle and use our products safely.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 70


OMV works in close collaboration with leading automobile manufacturers, research institutes, and universities to stay at the forefront of fuel technology. Our MaxxMotion premium fuels provide maximum power to vehicles, prolong engine life, and contribute to lowering emissions. Our MaxxMotion100-octane gasoline fulfills the highest fuel quality requirements in accordance with the Worldwide Fuel Charter, the guideline issued by major automobile and engine manufacturers’ associations. MaxxMotion diesel ensures reliable engine operation even at extremely cold temperatures down to –40°C.26. 
Biofuels. 
Biofuel volumes27. 
In kt. 
FAME Ethanol HVO 2018 2019 318 407 107 172 14 6. 
All biofuel volumes purchased by OMV in 2019 and used for blending meet the requirements of the EU’s Renewable Energy Directive (2009/28/EC). Since 2013, the ISCC-EU certificate issued for OMV Refining & Marketing GmbH has been renewed on an annual basis. OMV Petrom, OMV Hungary, OMV Czech Republic, and OMV Slovenia are also certified according to the ISCC-EU standard. OMV purchases biodiesel (FAME) mainly to add to fuels from European producers that use very little palm oil. In 2019, biofuels contained only around 4.22% palm oil. Certain biofuels are almost exclusively available with palm oil as feedstock. However, ISCC standards enforce that no deforestation on certified areas has taken place since January 2008 for biodiesel generation. Even so, we plan to increase the use of regional rapeseed oil and used cooking oil as well as other potential waste and advanced feedstock, which is made possible by the use of our Co-Processing technology. (For more details, see Biogenic Oil Co-Processing.)
In 2019, OMV and AustroCel Hallein GmbH signed a multiyear agreement to supply advanced bioethanol. The fuel components will be derived exclusively from spruce-based cellulose, which is a scrap material from the sawmill industry. The sustainable base of these fuel components leads them to be classified as “advanced biofuels.” In future, they will be added to OMV gasoline. This product will contribute to reducing the carbon intensity of the OMV product portfolio and thereby help us meet the OMV 2025 Sustainability Goals.
OMV aims to market its products in a responsible manner by engaging consumers in lowering greenhouse gas emissions. We therefore partnered with a large transportation company, Scania Romania, with the goal of raising awareness about the most efficient methods for reducing the consumption of fossil fuels.
Climate-neutral products. 
In 2019, we began offering our customers the option of procuring climate-neutral gas. Through our cooperation with Climate Partner, we are able to offer our customers a carbon offsetting service for emissions generated during the consumption of gas. In 2019, we were able to offset approximately 30,000 t of CO2 thanks to climate-neutral gas contracts for upcoming delivery years. We have defined a rigorous set of criteria and standards for the selection of climate protection projects to ensure optimal emissions offsetting verification. For instance, the technologies we selected for climate protection in our projects are wind power and forest protection. Climate protection projects are verified according to the internationally recognized standards for voluntary emissions reduction, the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) and the Gold Standard (GS). We plan to gradually expand the offsetting option to further OMV products.
26 CFPP value according to EN 590 27 2018 figure restated and 2019 figure estimated as both Austria and Germany data are based on year-to-date actuals plus a forecast for the remaining months each year, given that the final biofuel volume confirmation from authorities of a given year is not before the publication of the Sustainability Report.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 71


Innovation. 
For OMV, innovation is the development of new technologies and products with the aim of reducing our impact on the environment, increasing efficiency, developing new business opportunities, and achieving our main goal of reducing the carbon intensity of our operations and product portfolio. OMV will invest EUR 500 mn in innovative energy solutions by 2025.
Key Figures 100 t post-consumer plastic transformed into synthetic oil 18% of R&D into low-carbon solutions 21 mn. 
EUR in sustainability innov- ations projects in Down- stream. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 72


Innovation management. 
The Group’s research and development (R&D) expenses increased from EUR 40 mn in 2018 to EUR 49 mn in 2019. Out of total R&D expenses in 2019, EUR 8.945 mn (or 18%) was attributable to low-carbon solutions, such as hydrogen, advanced fuels, Co-Processing, and other Downstream innovations.
In fulfilling our purpose of providing “The energy for a better life,” OMV actively explores new solutions and technologies for delivering affordable and carbon-efficient products in a responsible way. At the same time, introducing innovative solutions to our business means seizing the opportunity for more efficient production and expansion to new market areas. This strengthens our economic resilience in line with developments in the energy sector.
The purpose of innovation at OMV is to make operations more efficient, to minimize environmental impacts, and to provide cost-efficient solutions to our customers and society. OMV has clustered its innovation activities in the following areas: biogenic oil Co-Processing, circular economy, and hydrogen. Beyond this, we focus on digitalization and optimized drilling, production, and reserves. Each innovation area is described below.
OMV collaborates globally with universities28, research institutes as well as with industry partners and relevant initiatives.
For example, OMV cooperates with various research institutions in the following areas:
Biogenic oil co-processing. 
OMV uses new technologies to increase the quality and stability of fuels with biogenic components through what is known as Co-Processing. Co-Processing involves introducing biogenic feedstock during the fuel refining process instead of the conventional method of blending biogenic components into fuel after production. This concept allows OMV’s existing refineries to produce transportation fuels from various types of biogenic feedstock, such as domestic rapeseed oil, sunflower oil, used cooking oil, or algae oil. The high degree of integration within OMV refineries reduces greenhouse gas emissions from Co-Processing by up to 85% compared with the EU standard for similar finishing steps for biofuels.
Co-Processing. 
Gasoil. 
Bio-oil. 
Diesel with bio content. 
In 2016, OMV successfully conducted the first field trial of Co-Processing using rapeseed oil and obtained certification in accordance with the REDcert standard, an EUrecognized system for the certification of sustainable biomass. OMV continues to implement Co-Processing technology, and by 2025, the Company aims to co-process approximately 200,000 t of sustainable feedstock per year, depending on future legislation.
Hydrothermal liquefaction of biomass waste to bio-oil (with University of Leoben)
Fast pyrolysis of biomass waste to bio-oil (Europeanfunded research project)
Conversion of CO2 to alcohols with microorganisms (University of Technology Vienna)
Photo reforming of water and CO2 (University of Cambridge, Christian Doppler Institute)
CO2 reforming (K1-MET and University of Leoben)
Storing and utilizing sustainable electric energy via synthetic e-fuels or chemical products (through a partnership within the German-funded Kopernikus project) 28 e.g., University of Cambridge, Stanford University, TU Wien – Vienna University of Technology, Montanuniversität Leoben, Johannes Kepler University Linz, University of Nat- ural Resources and Life Sciences (BOKU) Vienna, Sofia University, University of Mining and Geology Bulgaria. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 73


Unlike conventional biofuels, advanced fuels do not compete with food production. OMV also researches various advanced fuel technologies that are mostly in a research and development stage with the aim of future scale-up.
Sustainability Strategy 2025 target Raise the share of sustainable feedstock co-processed in the refineries to ~200,000 t per year by 2025. 
Status 2019. 
Action plan to achieve the target. 
Circular economy. 
There is a growing consensus on the need for a circular economy to preserve the environment, along with legal incentives, such as the Circular Economy Package of the European Commission, which aims to increase plastics recycling rates and minimize plastic leakage into the environment. OMV recognizes the environmental footprint of petrochemicals and assumes its responsibility for petrochemicals value chain impacts throughout their lifespan. Despite the current drawbacks of the plastics economy, plastics are part of the solution to a number of challenges facing our society. For example, light and innovative materials in cars and planes reduce fuel consumption and cut CO2 emissions. Biocompatible plastic materials enable medical innovation and save human lives. It is OMV’s ambition to strengthen its European downstream position through a shift to higher-value-added products, such as petrochemical products. This move, in combination with recycling of post-consumer plastics, is an important way to make better use of valuable natural resources.
OMV provides petrochemical feedstock to chemical companies and uses plastic waste as feedstock for the ReOil® plant.
OMV also directly interacts with Borealis and other companies through the platform EverMinds® for circular-eco- nomy-related activities.29 In October 2017, Borealis launched a joint initiative called STOP to eliminate leakage of plastics into the ocean, increase plastics recycling, and support the wider systemic changes required for a circular plastics economy. The first project started in Indonesia and is intended to improve the ways plastics are handled in one of the country’s most polluted areas.
OMV also implements initiatives directed toward the engagement of local stakeholders in the topic of the circular economy. The Company is also involved in two community investment projects focused on the circular plastics economy, which started in Romania in 2019: “Recycling Laboratory” and #noplasticwaste (for further details, see Community Relations and Development).
ReOil® – circular economy project. 
OMV has been exploring the potential for utilizing postconsumer plastics – polyethylene, polypropylene, and polystyrene – since 2011. The Austrian Research Promotion Agency has also contributed with subsidies covering part of the project investment. The first test facility was launched in 2013. In 2018, the next-level test facility – the ReOil® pilot plant – began fully refinery-integrated operation with a processing capacity of up to 100 kg per hour and production capacity of up to 100 liters of synthetic crude per hour.
Process Design Package finalized for Schwechat refinery. 
Process studies finalized for Petrobrazi refinery. 
For purposes of gaining further experience and rolling out Co-Processing at OMV Petrom, additional test runs are planned at the Petrobrazi refinery in Romania in 2020 (3,000 t of biogenic feedstock), to be accompanied by final product quality assurance tests in the laboratory.
29 www.borealiseverminds.com. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 74


The crude is then further processed at the Schwechat refinery into fuel products or base materials for the plastics industry. This process creates a closed loop (“the circular economy”), where post-consumer plastics are used to create value-added products, thereby reducing dependence on natural resources and lowering carbon intensity as compared to standard oil processing. This innovative chemical recycling technology closes the loop of post-consumer plastics recycling. Substituting crude oil with postconsumer plastics is estimated to lead to 45% lower CO2 emissions in the use of this product and 20% lower energy demand per t of the product.30. 
Chemical recycling. 
Refinery/ petrochemical process Short chain long chain. 
Plastics. 
Synthetic crude oil. 
ReOil® process. 
Long chain short chain. 
OMV holds the patent for this chemical recycling process in Europe, the US, Russia, Australia, Japan, India, China, and other countries.
In 2019, OMV worked on developing the necessary technical parameters for a further scale-up and initiated the engineering process to develop a ReOil® demo plant with a post-consumer plastic feedstock capacity of 16,000 to 20,000 t per year.
OMV aims to develop ReOil® into a commercially viable, industrial-scale recycling technology with a processing capacity of approximately 200,000 t of used plastics per year by 2025.
OMV has also signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with ADNOC for the establishment of a joint working group to assess the feasibility of a scalable ReOil® plant in the United Arab Emirates.
Sustainability Strategy 2025 target Develop ReOil® into a commercially viable, industrial-scale process (unit size of ~200,000 t per year)
Status 2019. 
Action plan to achieve the target 100 t of post-consumer plastics transformed into synthetic crude 40 days of continued production at the ReOil® plant. 
Continually improve operability and reliability based on a defined test run program, and utilize results achieved to improve process modeling and the design basis for the ReOil® demo plant 2022: demo plant with a post-consumer plastic feedstock capacity of 16,000 to 20,000 t per year 30 Austrian Federal Environmental Agency, ReOil – Bewertung eines Konzeptes zur kaskadischen Nutzung von Altkunststoffen im Raffineriekontext, 2016. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 75


Hydrogen. 
We are working to advance and optimize the entire energy value chain with sustainable hydrogen. In conventional hydrocarbon-based hydrogen production, we are looking into ways to prevent CO2 produced in the steam-reforming process from being expelled as emissions. Instead, we aim to separate it and subject it to further chemical processing, for example, for use in producing alcohols that are then turned into fuel. Another highly promising alternative is splitting natural gas into hydrogen and coke with the pyrolysis method, which uses lower amounts of energy compared to electrolysis with water. We also plan to produce green hydrogen, which involves electrolysis using sustainable energy sources, such as wind power. In addition to green hydrogen, carbon-neutral or lower-carbon hydrogen from the two methods outlined could be an important building block in meeting our targets with respect to reducing CO2 emissions.
Hydrogen production. 
Steam reforming 2H2O CO2 4H2. 
CH4 2H2O. 
Renewable energy. 
Natural gas. 
Electrolysis 2H2. 
O2. 
H2 storage & transport. 
H2 Mobility. 
Conventional Hydrogen. 
Green Hydrogen. 
Wind. 
Water. 
Solar. 
OMV-H 2 station. 
OMV is collaborating with several partners on the UpHy project involving the production of hydrogen for use in the mobility sector and in the refining process. Options for using green hydrogen to hydrogenate CO2, for reducing carbon emissions from industrial facilities and for producing synthetic fuels and chemicals (power-to-X) are also being evaluated. For more details on hydrogen mobility, see Focus on future mobility.
Innovation in drilling, production and reserves. 
Optimizing drilling and production processes prolongs the lifetime of hydrocarbon reserves, thus increasing production efficiency and reducing the impact on the environ- ment. OMV continuously works on optimizing the amount of hydrocarbons that can be extracted from an oil reservoir (recovery rate) and on extending the reliability of facilities and materials.
While the international average recovery rate for crude oil is about 40%, OMV succeeded in pushing recovery rates above 55% in the super-mature Matzen field in Austria by using water injection. OMV is among the global front runners in terms of achieving high recovery rates in mature fields. By 2025, OMV aims to increase the amount of oil that can be extracted from selected fields in Central and Eastern Europe by 5 to 15 percentage points, making our Company a leader in efficient production in the region.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 76


In 2012, OMV started injecting viscous saltwater to achieve higher recovery rates in a pilot project in the Matzen area. This launched our Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) activities and paved the way to attaining the strategic goal of further increasing the recovery rate. In total, 300,000 bbl of incremental oil were produced by the end of 2019. Oil rates could be significantly increased compared to conventional produced saltwater re-injection. In 2019, OMV made further progress in rolling out EOR projects in various fields in Austria and Romania.
OMV has made significant progress in developing new technologies and improving the operational performance of produced water treatment processes. In a series of field pilots targeting optimum produced saltwater quality for reinjection, OMV was able to identify innovative flotation and filtration technologies which can also effectively treat challenging emulsions.
Furthermore, OMV is investigating the possibilities for capturing CO2 from its own assets and introducing it into former gas reservoirs to reduce OMV’s carbon footprint (Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) technology).
Extending the lifetime and reliability of facilities and materials ensures safe and efficient hydrocarbon production.
Over the past 20 years, OMV has implemented extensive materials selection and corrosion management programs to ensure asset integrity, reduce safety risks, and minimize environmental impact. Equipping nearly 6,500 wells with artificial lift systems resulted in measurable reductions in power consumption and downtime of sucker rod pumps. Consequently, the number of well interventions decreased by 25% in Austria, reducing associated HSSE risks accordingly. OMV has investigated new nano-related technologies in the field of advanced coatings to extend material resistance, in the field of chemicals to inhibit paraffin deposits to optimize the production process, and in the field of adsorption systems to prevent soil and water contamination. OMV continues its cooperation with third-party research institutes on these technologies and is in the process of setting up programs together with other operators.
OMV works on extending the lifetime of operational facilities by mitigating abrasion and corrosion. To this end, cross-linked polyethylene pipes are inserted in tubing with a special polymer lining that was developed by OMV and patented in 16 countries. In addition, OMV has performed pilot tests on polymer flowlines under various operating conditions, which will allow us to cut costs and increase the efficiency of flowline replacement.
Sustainability Strategy 2025 target Increase the recovery factor in the CEE region in selected fields by 5–15 percentage points by 2025 through innovative Enhanced Oil Recovery methods. 
Status 2019. 
Action plan to achieve the target 100 kboe additional production in pilot project in Austria in 2019. 
We started a pilot EOR project in Romania, with the initial increase in the recovery rate and in production expected in 2020.
Finalize the pilot EOR project in Romania; further mature the full field implementation project in two Matzen field reservoirs. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 77


OMV’s digital journey. 
Innovation and technology are a powerful engine that drives and enables sustainability. Digitalization presents us with opportunities to harvest value from connecting data sources across the Company and even beyond the Company. This, in turn, helps us deal with the higher business complexity and increased expectation levels of customers and other stakeholders. Data centralization and advanced analytics help make sense of production and logistical data to steer our production to higher yields, higher quality, and reduced losses. Customer data help us offer the best possible service to our customers. We believe both digital and technical innovation are vital for reducing both the environmental impact of our business and our carbon intensity, as innovation often means better asset utilization and process efficiencies as well as improved maintenance and early anomaly detection. It leads to optimized workloads and better business results and improves environmental and social performance. OMV’s Digital Journey is our program to achieve these goals and pave the way toward digital leadership. It is composed of synergetic and orchestrated initiatives across the entire Group: Upstream, Downstream, and Corporate. OMV’s digital ambition is to become a digital leader in core areas by adopting the latest digital technologies, such as the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), intelligent automation, machine learning, and video analytics.
Digital transformation at OMV is much more than applying and scaling technology – it is also about people and culture. Creating a digital mindset, building digital skills, and reshaping the talent landscape are essential parts of our Digital Journey. All of this is implemented using design thinking and agile ways of working and in close collaboration with technology partners, universities, and start-ups.
Three signposts guide OMV’s Digital Journey:
OMV DIGITAL. 
JOURNEY. 
ACT ENABLE. 
DIGITALIZE. 
DIGITALIZE!
Creating business agility through smart investment choices that focus on highest impact on business and HSSE priorities.
ACT!
Committed to develop an empowered, collaborative learning culture that enables each employee to help shape the energy future. Innovating at speed and scale by creating environments receptive to innovation and fostering an organization, skills, and mindset that are adaptive to digitalization while boosting internal innovation development efforts through open innovation methods and agile ways of working.
ENABLE!
Common digital platforms forming the backbone of our digital core that enables us to break down data silos and use data across the Group. Applying technologies like SAP S/4HANA, cybersecurity, the cloud, hybrid integration, analytics, and data platforms builds a basis for increasing efficiency and enabling new business models.
While all three pillars are interconnected, the DIGITALIZE stream focuses more on the technology aspects, the ENABLE stream focuses on breaking data silos, and the ACT part specifically addresses our people skills and ways of working.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 78


Digitalization in Corporate. 
With the launch of Finance 4.0 in 2018, we started the Finance Division’s journey toward a future-oriented, digitalized process and system landscape enabling integrated growth.
A strong midterm strategic focus for Finance is the implementation of the new SAP S/4HANA enterprise resource planning software. The goal is to increase business value by providing real-time digital and analytics functionalities based on harmonized data and processes. The implementation of SAP Ariba – the cloud-based solution covering all processes related to source-to-contract and purchase-topay – enables digital transformation in Procurement.
Paperless initiative at OMV Petrom. 
OMV Petrom started the rollout of the Paperless initiative to minimize the use of paper for daily work activities. Goals of the initiative are twofold: to establish the culture of digital working as well as giving employees the necessary tools and skills to go paperless. Workshops and masterclasses informed employees about the value of digitaliz- ation and its environmental benefits. Numerous other tools in the initiatives help reduce the use of paper, including the rollout of digital signatures and digital documentation storage. In addition to environmental benefits, implementation of the Paperless initiative enhances work efficiency as it builds the basis for automation and digitalization of administrative processes and reduces the risk of document loss.
Digitalization in Upstream. 
OMV aims to advance into the league of digital frontrunners in the Upstream industry. Digitalization helps optimize operations and processes for higher efficiency, improve HSSE performance, and increase profitability. At the same time, digital technologies and the resulting deployment of new capabilities will not just make OMV more attractive to new employees but will also open the door to new partnerships with operators and suppliers.
Our digital roadmap consists of the following five lighthouses ranging from the business agility programs Digital Twins, Digital Oilfield, and Digital Rig to Digital Ways of Working and Digital Office of the Future. The roadmap contains more than 70 projects and use cases.
Integrated Digital Twins from subsurface to facilities. 
This program focuses on subsurface-related matters ranging from exploration to development within OMV’s supply chain. Multiple evergreen reservoir models will enable end-to-end value creation through informed decision-making under rigorous management of uncertainty. The aim is a unified ecosystem which will integrate workflows, technology, and data with personal knowledge, assisted by artificial intelligence. No search will be required for information and tools; instead, they are available anytime. The data is accessible through a personalized cockpit with all the decision-relevant information, so all employees can contribute to fast and effective decision-making.
For example, the Digital Rock project creates Digital Twins of real rocks with all their components in the micrometer range. The Digital Twins will be part of the high-performance computing (HPC) environment and deliver deep insight into our reservoir properties. Compared to traditional rock scanning, this yields fast results, uses less hazardous chemicals for laboratory measurements, and helps improve the quality of our exploration and development activities.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 79


Real-time digital oilfield. 
This program aims to expand the options for safer, greener, and more efficient operations through strategic integrated digital technology deployment. A recent example is a robotic drone that conducted routine condition inspections of the largest crude oil storage tanks in a fraction of the time and at lower costs, while completely eliminating the risk to human life when working at height and entering confined spaces. In addition, robotic crawlers with magnetic pads are currently being tested to perform paint blasting and reconditioning of external corrosion protection, thus eliminating the extreme risks linked to having humans perform this work.
Advanced Process Control systems are in the testing phase to implement an algorithm-based predictive model that helps the operators control and optimize the facilities at all times in order to operate at the most efficient operating point possible. This reduces internal consumption of energy, decreases the carbon footprint, and increases the efficiency of processing chemicals, thus optimizing production costs.
The Digital Worker (also called “remote operator”) stream includes the technology for streaming high-quality images and information from the drilling and operational sites all over the world to OMV experts. This enables them to provide the right support and decisions remotely without the need to travel long distances to safety-risk areas.
Digital rig of the future. 
The RigUP program enables the custom design and construction of an automated robotic rig, featuring custom software and an innovatively powered drillpipe. RigUP aims to implement an unmanned rig floor as well as reliable high-speed data feeds and innovative rig sensors for effective and efficient remote well-construction monitoring. This will remove a persistent source of harm to personnel on the rig site, thus fulfilling OMV’s Vision of “ZERO harm – NO losses.”
New drilling technology that will come into force in 2020 will allow us to use less fuel per well due to faster drilling. At the same time, a smarter supply chain system between suppliers, warehouses, and the rigs will reduce traffic to the well site, leading to reduced CO2 and NOx emissions. Increasing performance and optimizing the wells will require fewer workover operations to maintain production and thus will create a safer work environment.
Digital Ways of Working. 
This lighthouse aims at building OMV Upstream in such a way that we are resilient to the market and always competitive at our core – maximizing our digitalization return will increase speed to maneuver.
Upstream’s organization, team, and people will seize opportunities wherever they arise and be empowered to contribute to value creation in a sustainable manner. One focus area will be to enable our most valuable asset – our employees – to take Upstream’s digital journey by developing digital competencies and skills. Collaboration with the Corporate Culture initiative (for more details, see Beyond technology – working differently) is embedded in this lighthouse to ensure that Upstream’s front-runner vision includes the Group-wide Digital Journey.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 80


Digital Office of the Future. 
Digitalization is based on data. This program therefore focuses on OMV’s data backbone to create a digitalized OMV Upstream frontrunner organization. We are building a flexible and globally high-performance, secure infrastructure for our staff by using latest cloud and integration technologies, providing access to state-of-the-art integrated applications and quality-assured data and knowledge.
One example is the GeoCloud platform, which allows users to run geoscience applications that require large amounts of electricity and computing power to collaborate globally on projects and workflows. This has already been rolled out at eight out of ten OMV locations and allows 400 users to access 1.6 PB of geological data and 170 applications from any device around the world. In addition, GeoCloud provides the flexibility and scalability to quickly deploy a virtual office by improving the security of data and people exposed to high-risk regions. The GeoCloud application will be the basis for further projects, such as high-performance computing (HPC), which is crucial for obtaining data for machine learning and artificial intelligence methods to enable data-driven decisionmaking. The HPC environment on Microsoft Azure is currently set up to reduce simulation times and increase resolution by a factor of 10 each using a globally unlimited license model.
Digitalization in Downstream. 
Digitalization initiatives in Downstream will generate new value in the selected focus areas of operational excellence, value chain integration, and customer experience. The Downstream Digitalization Roadmap for 2025 consists of 60+ initiatives to achieve process optimization, simplify work, extend our digital capabilities, lower costs, embrace new business opportunities, and further contribute to an innovative corporate culture.
Digital terminal. 
We are implementing a digital and automated end-to-end business process covering the entire operational cycle of tank farms. This entails harmonizing the IT landscape across all depots to increase the efficiency of the entire operational process, from loading activities to digital data processing in the terminal management system. Furthermore, mobile technologies have eliminated all paper-based processes, simplifying and making fuel loading safer. Embracing the Internet of Things approach, we have introduced a fully automated emergency monitoring and execution system with automated fire-extinguishing components, thus improving safety, security, and regulatory compliance.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 81


Algorithms supporting gas traders. 
OMV GAS, which is authorized to trade in twelve EU gas markets, implemented an algorithmic trading tool to simultaneously monitor constantly changing order book activities related to the trading of gas contracts. Every event in the order books is read and stored in real time in a high-performance database, comprising around 400,000 data records. Data analytics tools combine other market information to search for patterns and optimize trading decisions. The system also helps close trades in milliseconds, while balancing fluctuations in gas supply and demand and optimizing gas transportation as well as gas storage capacities. Such automation reduces the workload, while optimizing the OMV GAS portfolio all day, every day.
Virtual training center. 
In addition to virtual 2D and 3D simulator classroom training aimed at ensuring optimal preparedness for unplanned or critical events, OMV distributes simulator training software with standard computers, thus enabling employees to train autonomously and according to requirements. This helps provide cost-effective trainings with high coverage across all refinery sites.
Beyond technology – working differently. 
Digital transformation is a broad concept. Its success can be measured based on its predefined goals, which are understood differently by different organizations. Some organizations want to automate internal processes and workflows to improve efficiency and reduce costs. Others want to establish digital channels to reach their customers, while still others aim to give their workforce expertise and skills for working safely and efficiently. If we consider digital transformation as a measure for making our organization fit for the future, the indicators include:
Empowering the workforce: creating a culture and environment receptive to innovation and change. 
In a digital world, now more than ever, our employees are at the heart of our business. Many things will be easier, but also new and different. This is why we want to nurture an innovation-friendly corporate culture, build skills in digital technologies and new ways of working, and foster collab-
Developing leadership with a digital mindset: During a transformation, change occurs on every level. One of the indicators of a successful digital transformation is having the leaders with the right digital mindset and a clear vision and strategy, who are committed to the transformation.
Adjusting the roles and responsibilities of the workforce in line with digital capabilities: One of the indicators of a successful digital transformation is an empowered workforce that embraces change and innovation and can adapt to new ways of working.
Empowering the workforce to handle day-to-day change and innovation: One of the major outcomes of a digital transformation should be developing skills and talents across the organization. The workforce must not only acquire digital skills and adapt to new ways of working, but employee roles and responsibilities must also be transformed as a result of digital transformation.
Establishing digital as the new norm in the organization: Digital should be established as the new norm in the organization including digital tools, processes, and communication channels as well as technology in operations and data-driven decisionmaking. Digital tools are needed for new working methods and are an important way to spread information and data across the organization and make it accessible for everyone.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 82


oration. With this in mind, we set up #ACT, a portfolio of initiatives based on people, culture, and the organization:
Adapting our culture and our ways of working. 
Building on our Foundation, we looked at what behaviors and ways of working we need to absorb in our culture to enable us to deal better and faster with the many changes in the digital world as well as in the environment, in mobility, and in society. We realized that we needed to leave behind some fears, silo thinking, and strong hierarchies to be able to respond to the changes in our environment. We are committed to developing an empowered, collaborative learning culture that enables each employee to help shape our energy future.
Building digital capabilities with the Digital Academy. 
We set up a portfolio of initiatives to nurture an innovation-friendly corporate culture, build skills in digital technologies and new ways of working, and foster collaborations.
Digital Academy. 
The Digital Academy enables OMV staff to develop skills through learning and helps them embrace new ways of working and new technologies. It offers training courses to help OMV employees take part in lifelong learning and build strengths in capabilities needed to deliver OMV’s Digital Journey.
The Digital Academy is accessed through our Learning Management System. It contains over 250 validated courses, the majority of which are online and available globally to every employee at every level. The Academy helps find relevant trainings by identifying various topic areas depending on the employee’s core role and knowledge needs at OMV. The content was developed by a cross-functional team from Upstream, Downstream, and Corporate. In the first two weeks of operation, OMV colleagues around the globe watched 7,400 learning videos.
The agile approach and collaboration with start-ups. 
In 2019, we organized our first International Digital Intrapreneur challenge. Over 100 employees submitted ideas that would contribute to innovation and business agility. The winning pitch, the RD4 Predictive Heat Exchanger Schedule, wowed the jury for both its financial and environmental benefit – it is expected to generate significant cost savings and save up to 15,000 t of CO2 emissions per year.
Ensuring a fresh supply of ideas, perspectives, and cuttingedge technologies is a central element of innovation and digitalization. We can often greatly benefit from new ideas by young companies. To learn from them, OMV engages in dialogue and cooperation with young and aspiring technology companies or start-ups. One such example is Innovation2Company, an initiative organized by the Vienna Economic Chamber that focused on the search for innovative solutions in the area of predictive maintenance. The winning start-up, ZeitDice, was awarded an innovation cash prize and a pilot with OMV. ZeitDice is a Canadian start-up that provides a cloud-based computer vision platform and smart time lapse cameras that extract measurable data from images. In Romania we have been collaborating for four years with Innovation Labs, a nationwide start-up development competition, which has ultimately resulted in several start-up collaborations.
Adapting our culture and our ways of working. 
Building digital capabilities. 
Fostering open innovation. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 83


Open innovation facts & figures. 
External hackathons & startup contests >120 international start-ups evaluated and supported. 
Organizational transformation >200 people trained in agile methodologies. 
OMV Intrapreneur Challenge >80 ideas pitched 12 ideas implemented. 
In-house digital summits – masterclasses >15 at OMV Petrom and OMV 1st masterclass executive. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 84


Employees. 
Building and retaining a talented and competent team for international and integrated growth is a key factor in the success of the Group’s strategy. We are committed to creating an environment in which every employee can learn, grow, connect, and collaborate as well as live a safe and healthy life. This is the purpose of our approach in managing the material topic “Employment and skills development,” which successfully enables us to be an employer of choice.
Through our activities, we support the “four fundamental principles and rights at work” outlined in the ILO (International Labour Organization) Declaration:
Our Company’s Principles – Team Spirit, Accountability, Passion, Pioneering Spirit, and Performance – foster the culture that we strive for and support the sustainable growth of OMV.
Key Figures 99% of employees have the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining 19.6% share of women at management level 77% of executives have international experience. 
Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 
The elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. 
The effective abolition of child labor. 
The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation<
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 85


Management of employment and skills development. 
In 2019, we focused on a significant internationalization of our business portfolio, both Upstream and Downstream, within a disciplined financial framework. Driven by our employees, we convert energy into quality of life.
We know that it is the experience, skills, attitude, and commitment of our people at OMV that turn our strategy into reality. To unlock our organization’s full potential we have further embedded OMV’s Foundation Principles into our daily work.
OMV’s People Strategy supports the implementation of the following priorities through planned initiatives directed at supporting OMV’s growth:
Strengthening leadership capability. 
Strong leadership is needed to ensure that our growth is fast, profitable, and sustainable. Since 2017, we have put significant effort into strengthening the capabilities of our managers. This is still a core item on our agenda through various initiatives. For example, we broadened our leadership development opportunities by adding leadership refreshment and leadership essential courses and deepened training in all functional, technical, and business skills. In 2019, we further expanded our portfolio of leadership development programs in the area of soft skills learning and process management.
Focusing on culture and performance. 
Digitalization is about people and culture. That is why creating a digital mindset and reshaping the talent landscape are an integral part of OMV’s Digital Journey, as is integrating technology partners, universities, and start-ups into our activities.
Our human resources processes have been further simplified and automated in the course of digitalization. One initiative in this area was the installation of My Success Factors, a SAP-based tool that is also accessible from mobile devices and helps us improve our performance and build a digitally oriented corporate culture. The following processes are supported by My Success Factors with further enhanced performance features: goal setting, goal evaluation and feedback, development planning, succession planning, recognition, personal HR administration, and learning. For example, employees can use the tool’s feedback function to request and receive feedback from their colleagues on their performance. This feedback is directly linked to their record of achievements in the goal plan. Furthermore, a user-friendly and state-of-the-art recognition tool allows anyone to nominate a colleague or a team for an award to show appreciation with just a few clicks.
In continuation of our digitalization efforts, we launched our Digital Academy in September 2019 to prepare for the digital transformation. Implemented as part of the OMV’s Digital Journey, this set of courses aims to create a culture and environment that is receptive to innovation at all hierarchy levels of the Company organization. The Academy consists of more than 250 courses, covering everything from basic digital and function-specific digital skills to leadership skills to prepare our employees for working in a digital world. In bitesized lessons, the courses can be attended whenever and wherever employees want. (For more details on the Digital Academy, see OMV’s digital journey.)
Increasing organizational agility. 
Growth is based on consistency, transparency, and standardization of our processes for managing our human capital. We are therefore continuing to integrate and consolidate our processes into a central Group-wide IT platform as part of our HR Digital Journey. We are also concentrating more on corporate management from headquarters. As the global governance and business center, headquarters will, in future, be responsible for all Groupwide Finance and HR activities as well as digitization and IT. With this step, OMV is creating more than 250 new, highly qualified jobs in Austria, where its roots lie.
Ensuring OMV remains a great place to work. 
Every day we strive to create an environment in which every employee can learn, grow, connect, and collaborate as well as live a safe and healthy life. We have continued to expand our training offering by adding new courses and online content for professional, business, personal, and leadership development. We also introduced a transparent and consistent system for classifying career positions with a list of criteria for each level of employment, corresponding responsibilities, and compensation and benefits.
Rights and obligations. 
The rights and obligations of our employees are set out in employment contracts. The vast majority of our employees, i.e., 98.9% (2018: 98.5%), have the right to exercise their freedom of association and collective bargaining. For 98.8% (2018: 99.6%) of our employees, minimum wages or salaries are fixed by law or agreed through collective bargaining agreements. Local trade unions or works councils represent 89.6% (2018: 88.6%) of our employees. In addition, 98.9% (2018: 97.8%) are covered by mandatory periods of notice under national employment laws or bargaining agreements in case restructuring of the business is necessary.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 86


Diversity. 
OMV is committed to its diversity strategy focusing on gender equality and internationality. Diversity is an enormous strength that we are actively leveraging by creating diversity-based business value. It has therefore become a strategically important goal with two measurable targets in our Sustainability Strategy 2025: gender equality and internationality. The focus on diversity is one of the key pillars of our People Strategy, which has been defined under the strategic priority of leadership as “Inspiring leaders – building high-performing, diverse teams.” To achieve this goal, we have embedded diversity targets into our people processes, such as recruitment, talent and succession planning, learning, and leadership development. We continuously monitor gender, age, employee background, seniority, and salary equality to ensure fair treatment and equal opportunities at all career levels. At the same time, we strive to continuously develop new initiatives and measures that promote diversity and equal opportunity at OMV. In 2019, we defined a joint action plan between business functions and the HR department to strengthen diversity throughout our organization by:
OMV is committed to its diversity strategy focusing on gender equality and internationality. 
Set up an inclusive environment to value and repect a diverse workspace. 
Achieve the best mixture of employees, talents, backgrounds, and perspectives. 
Create business value by fully benefitting from diversity Group-wide. 
Considering the fact that we operate in an industry with a strong technical focus, it is particularly challenging for OMV to achieve a balanced gender ratio in all areas of business activity. The proportion of women in the Group as a whole amounts to 26%.
Engaging and raising awareness through specific actions and initiatives to support professional progress for female employees. 
Diversity Network: a self-organized Group-wide network that raises awareness of specific needs, provides support, and builds a strong network within the Company. 
Maintaining and improving a work environment that helps female employees be their best by supporting work-life balance and parenthood. 
In some countries, we have in place OMV daycare, summer camps, flexitime, home office, 16 flexible part-time models, “stay connected” guide, job sharing. 
Providing tailored trainings and information to leaders and employees to ensure gender balance at OMV. 
Unconscious bias e-learning course, advanced mentoring for women, and women in leadership pilot training. 
To encourage leaders to create an inclusive work environment, the unconscious bias topic has been included in our leader programs.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 87


To encourage gender diversity, our recruitment policy reflects our commitment to promoting equal opportunities: At least one female candidate is included in every shortlist for each position. Internationality, another focus of our diversity strategy, is integrated into the recruitment process by highlighting the advantage of recruiting candidates with professional international experience. Our diversity targets are also embedded in succession planning, with a preference for female candidates when identifying top talent. (For more details on the succession planning process, see Succession planning.)
We support women in technical training at the early preprofessional stage. The proportion of women in OMV’s Upstream graduate development program31 for technical skill pools was 27% in 2019 (25% in 2018). To get young people interested in technical professions, we organized activities in kindergartens and schools, such as Girls’ Day (for more details, see Community Relations and Development).
OMV has committed itself to supporting the advancement of women in management positions. The strategic objective is to achieve the best diversity mix at management level. By 2025, we aim to increase the proportion of women in management positions from 19.6% to 25%. To achieve this goal, we anchored diversity in leadership expectations and in all leadership initiatives. In OMV’s leadership development programs, the proportion of women was 26% in 2019 (28% in 2018). Our development activities include, for example, mentoring for female leaders and specific trainings on unconscious bias32 and decision-making. Gender is one of the diversity criteria we apply when selecting members of the Supervisory Board and of the Executive Board. (For additional information, see the Annual Report 2019.) 31 Integrated Graduate Development (IGD) in Upstream is designed to train technical graduates in the field of petroleum engineering over the course of three years. 32 Unconscious bias training explains the role of stereotypes and how they can influence behavior in employment and careers.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 88


Sustainability Strategy 2025 targets Increase share of women at management level33 to 25%34 by 2025. 
Keep high share of executives35 with international experience36 at 75%
Status 2019. 
Action plan to achieve the targets The plan is embedded in OMV’s People Strategy. Building diverse teams is one of our leadership expectations. Implementation of the joint action plan aimed at:
We raise awareness of diversity by embedding it in our existing leadership development programs. In 2020, we are planning additional events, such as speaker series based on diversity success stories.
We support increasing the proportion of women in senior management positions through a range of initiatives, such as mentoring, succession planning, specific trainings, and our recruitment policy. Initiatives to increase work-life flexibility and country-specific programs, such as company daycare and summer camps for school kids, facilitate the balance between work and family life.
The process of executive recruiting includes the criteria of internationality in the assessment of candidates.
Share of women at management level: 19.6%
Executives with international experience: 77%
Engagement and raising awareness. 
Facilitating a work environment that supports female employees. 
Enabling development of the workforce with the objective of facilitating gender balance 33 Management level: executives and advanced career level 34 Figure excludes the following legal entities: Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH, and DUNATÀR Köolajtermék Tároló és Kereskedelmi Kft. 35 Executives are defined as Senior Vice Presidents. 36 International experience: equal to or greater than three years of living and working abroad. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 89


Activities in the area of skill development. 
Learning and development. 
We highly encourage employees to pursue continuing education to further enhance their various skills. Employees identify their learning needs through a mixture of localized training matrices. These assist them in creating development-oriented action plans linked to career paths, competencies, and professional goals.
The four key competencies in which we encourage our employees to further develop are functional and technical skills, business skills related to effective work in the OMV Group, personal skills, and leadership skills. Our functional and technical training focuses on maintaining a skilled and capable workforce. This training is planned and delivered annually in line with our workforce requirements.
Learning on the job. 
Learning from others 70%
Learning from your­ current job. 
Learning from projects and communities. 
Learning from job change. 
Learning from trainings 20% 10%
We encourage the use of online resources for training. The expansion of our online learning content enables employees to access more consistent training content and enhances its accessibility on a global level. We have seen that the use of online courses and online materials has doubled without a decrease in the use of face-to-face training channels.
The Learning module launched in our learning system provides a transparent and user-friendly tool for finding appropriate educational and development activities based on employee-specific development needs, registering for training, and tracking each employee’s online and face-toface training history.
However, learning on the job remains an important element in employee development and training. We encourage employees to learn on the job, where they can apply their professional or educational skills to the specifics of OMV business and culture.
Our 70:20:10 approach gives the importance of learning on the job a weighting of 70, learning from others a weighting of 20, and learning from training a weighting of 10.
Leadership development. 
One of the People Strategy priorities is to strengthen leadership capabilities. We aim to ensure that our leaders continually grow and develop. In 2019, 113 leaders participated in our leader program which is designed to support employees taking on a personnel management role for the first time. 42 participated in the program which aims to support transitioning leaders in taking on their new roles. These programs were rolled out on a Group-wide basis.
We ran cross-divisional leadership workshops as part of a Group-wide leadership upskilling initiative. They were aimed at supporting a shared understanding of leadership and the role of leaders at OMV, fostering cross-divisional learning, and introducing our new leadership tools for employee development and succession planning. The. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 90


cross-divisional workshops for all middle managers were attended by 496 leaders.
We also allow our employees to provide anonymous feedback to senior leaders and middle managers on their performance, leadership capabilities, and how they encourage compliance with the OMV Principles. As part of this 360° feedback program, about 200 of our senior leaders and middle managers received insights from employees. On a more personal level, we offer mentoring to provide employees with guidance on key career issues. In 2019, 34 mentors provided mentoring services at the Board and executive levels.
Activities in the area of employment. 
Recruitment process management. 
In 2019, OMV launched a very important strategic project, the aim of which is to facilitate the recruitment of highly qualified employees from the local labor market in Austria for approximately 250 newly created positions in the Human Resources, IT, and Finance departments. The Corporate Strategy 2025 stipulates further growth and internationalization, which is why OMV needs more resources to manage central data collection and processing on a Group-wide scale, under the leadership of the headquarters in Austria. This also allows us to master the increasing digitalization of our business. Austria has a proven track record as home to the OMV Group’s research and innovation center, from which digital technologies are increasingly being developed and rolled out internationally.
In order to ensure consistent quality in the recruitment process, we have introduced an online satisfaction survey, which is conducted quarterly among our business managers participating in the recruiting process.
Succession planning. 
Effective succession planning contributes to managing business continuity risk by ensuring the preservation of human capital – OMV’s most valuable asset. “Personal Impact x Potential” is an evaluation tool used to provide structural feedback in performance reviews and in succession planning. Managers evaluate their employees on Personal Impact and Potential and identify successors for business-critical positions. Based on this, an employee’s development plan is created to improve the skills needed for his or her future role. We have developed Companywide career paths that outline the experience and skills required for a position.
We created a global platform for evaluating technical skills and launched a pilot project for this digital tool in Down- stream Gas Sales. We plan to extend coverage of the platform to other functions in early 2020.
We are also focusing on building a robust talent pipeline through cooperation with key universities. In addition to offering internships, we operate a sponsored program and long-term partnership with the University of Leoben (Austria’s university for mining, metallurgy, and materials), where eight students from Austria, Romania, Russia, and Libya were accepted into our master’s degree course in petroleum engineering in 2019.
Rewards and performance management. 
OMV strives for competitive compensation and benefits packages. We continuously monitor market trends and international best practices in order to attract, motivate, and retain the best-qualified talent around the world. Long-term employment relationships are what we strive for. In addition, we encourage salary equality at all career stages, for example, by setting up standardized salaries for entry-level employees which are reviewed each year in line with local market conditions.
OMV strives to maintain a uniform organizational structure that provides clarity and transparency with regard to responsibilities and the hierarchical classification of positions. In 2019, we implemented a project to ensure a fair and objective evaluation of positions that is consistent across all divisions and countries, and revised the system for grading positions. We use a clearly defined methodology that allows us to assess the specific value of the position of each employee for the organization.
At OMV, we aim to optimize employee performance through our Principles-led culture. To unlock an employee’s full potential, we look at what we do and how we do it. Both aspects are important when we set our performance and development goals, review our progress, evaluate our achievements, and ultimately are rewarded and recognized annually. The purpose of our annual review process is to support our employees and managers through structured, systematic planning of performance and personal development within the Company. In 2019, performance and development reviews were conducted with 11,815 employees.
The remuneration of the Executive Board is fully disclosed as part of the OMV Annual Report. (Detailed information is provided in the Consolidated Corporate Governance Report, which is part of the Annual Report 2019. Additional information on compensation and benefits for OMV employees can be found on the OMV website at www.omv.com.)
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 91


Recognition program. 
Employees can give and receive three types of awards as a token of appreciation for their colleagues’ accomplishments:
Based on the success of last year’s recognition initiative, in which employees sent each other “thank you” messages, we raised sufficient funds to donate to three selected social initiatives: 1. Yemen: humanitarian assistance in war-torn Yemen 2. Austria: social-pedagogical care center Schwechat 3. Romania: Oilmen’s School in Romania. 
Humanitarian assistance in war-torn Yemen. 
Social-pedagogical care center Schwechat. 
The OMV Excellence Award provides recognition for outstanding results and significant impact in connection with strategic projects or business transactions. The Executive Board discusses and selects the best projects and initiatives that have the greatest impact on the success of the Company in a quarterly calibration.
The Job Excellence Award recognizes employees for exceptional performance that goes beyond the usual job requirements.
The Principle in Action Award provides instant recognition to an individual for being a role model and living by our Foundation Principles, which reinforces our desired culture of performance and cooperation. This recognition enables all awarded colleagues to make a donation to a social project supported by OMV.
Nearly 16 million people do not have enough to eat and are in urgent need of emergency assistance: 1.8 million children are suffering from acute malnutrition, and more than 3.25 million women in Yemen are facing increased health and safety risks.
To help support food and provide essential services to those in need, several national and international organizations are working tirelessly in Yemen. Our support will help those in need in Yemen.
Contribution to UN Sustainable Development Goal 1 – No Poverty. 
The social-pedagogical care and counseling center (SOPS) in Schwechat is a private association for children, young people, and families experiencing social and economic challenges.
SOPS offers educational and leisure activities, along with various excursions, parties, and creative workshops.
With this financial support, the center can purchase special books, educational materials, and games to support learning.
Contribution to UN Sustainable Development Goals 1 – No poverty and 4 –Quality education. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 92


Oilmen’s School in Romania. 
In 2019, we won the most significant HR Award in Austria and received a silver prize for our “Thx for doing great!” recognition program in the category of “Strategy, Leadership & People Development.” Our recognition program is among the best-practice HR programs, tools, and initiatives recognized for innovation and added value for the business and for employees.
At the Loyalty Ceremony in 2019, we honored the outstanding achievements and loyalty of 139 of our coworkers in the categories 25, 35, 40, 45, and even 50 years of service to OMV.
As part of the Vocational Romania Program, OMV Petrom created three vocational classes attended by 168 students across the country.
Students successfully completing the program receive a professional qualification recognized at European level.
The schools need practical laboratories with mechanical equipment and infrastructure for student practice.
Contribution to UN Sustainable Development Goal 4 – Quality education. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 93


Business Principles and Social Responsibility. 
We act in accordance with the highest ethical standards on an international level everywhere we operate. OMV is a signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and is fully committed to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. With our global activities, we aim to contribute to the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Key Figures 11,144 employees participated in online business ethics trainings 9,194 employees received human rights training 1.3 mn beneficiaries from community development initia- tives. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 94


Business principles and anti-corruption. 
OMV is a signatory to the UN Global Compact. Although we are headquartered in Austria – a country with high business ethics standards – we operate in several countries in the Middle East, North Africa, Asia-Pacific and Central and Eastern Europe that are defined as high risk by the Transparency International Corruption Perception Index. We strive to avoid the risks of bribery and corruption that are specific to our sector. We also highly value our reputation. Therefore, our highest priority is ensuring uniform compliance with our business ethics standards wherever we operate. Compliance with ethical standards is a non-negotiable value that supersedes any business interest. Absolute commitment to this objective is embedded at all levels at OMV from top management to every employee. Our business partners are also expected to share the same understanding of and commitment to ethical standards. Every company activity, from planning business strategy to daily operations, is assessed for compliance with ethical standards, such as the Code of Conduct and Code of Business Ethics.
Business principles and anti-corruption management. 
Business ethics regulatory framework. 
The OMV Group follows a zero-tolerance policy with regard to bribery, fraud, theft, and other forms of corruption. Based on this policy, the OMV Group is committed to detecting any potential policy violations at the earliest stage, thoroughly investigating any such incidents of non-compliance and determining appropriate organizational measures or sanctions for the individuals involved. The integrity of our employees is the foundation for the trust placed in our Company by our customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders.
The regulatory instruments at OMV that establish ethics principles and standards and guide our approach to ethical conduct are our Code of Business Ethics, an internal policy applicable to OMV employees, and our Code of Conduct37, an external policy governing the work with our business partners and stakeholders. The procedures established by these documents are implemented at every fully consolidated subsidiary of OMV and apply to everyone who works for OMV or in the name of OMV. We require compliance with international business principles from all parties with whom we enter into partnership agreements, such as joint ventures. Companies performing services for OMV (i.e., suppliers) must follow anti-bribery procedures that are consistent with the principles of OMV’s Code of Business Ethics and with OMV’s business ethics standards, as defined in the Code of Conduct. (For more details, see Supply Chain: Supplier sustainability compliance.)
OMV strives to earn stakeholders’ confidence by implementing a high standard of corporate governance, transparency, and predictability. OMV has therefore committed itself to compliance with the Austrian Code of Corporate Governance, and, in this context, through its Code of Business Ethics forbids any support of political parties, including donations. We follow political and regulatory initiatives (both at EU and national levels) in our areas of interest, including energy, environment, climate change, trade, and others. OMV has a dedicated department for Public Affairs activities. We are fully in line with all reporting obligations at the national and EU levels, and we are fully compliant with all transparency requirements.
OMV supports the Paris Agreement. This position is embraced by OMV at all organizational levels, including our activities in various interest groups. In addition, OMV has started to regularly verify whether the main interest groups of which the company is a member support the Paris Agreement.
OMV Compliance Management System. 
OMV has set up a comprehensive Compliance Management System including policies, audits, and trainings. The system aims to anchor OMV’s business ethics policies throughout the organization and to ensure their correct implementation. OMV introduced a Group-wide online training program for business ethics. 11,144 employees completed the online training. In addition, face-to-face business ethics trainings were conducted with 514 employees. We also monitor the compliance of all of our operations with laws and regulations concerning capital markets law and competition law as well as international trade sanctions and embargoes that are applicable to OMV. Face-to-face trainings in these other compliance areas were conducted with 482 employees in 2019.
OMV employees are encouraged to regularly participate in compliance training covering topics that are relevant to various types of jobs. The Compliance Management System is implemented Group-wide through collaboration between centrally based management units and local compliance officers in all countries in which OMV operates. This international compliance organization, which is dedicated to ensuring Group-wide implementation of OMV’s ethical standards, comprises 37 compliance experts.
In 2013, OMV became the first organization in Austria to comply with the comprehensive IDW Assurance Standard 980. The IDW Assurance Standard 980 is the benchmark certification standard for DAX and ATX companies.
The OMV Compliance Management System is regularly reevaluated and was recertified under IDW PS 98038 in 2017. Both external and internal risk factors, in particular 37 Our Code of Conduct and a brochure with the key elements of our Code of Business Ethics are available at: www.omv.com/en/business-ethics-and-anti-corruption 38 IDW PS 980 regulates the Principles for the Proper Performance of Reasonable Assurance Engagements Relating to Compliance Management Systems. The corresponding. 
English version is IDW AsS 980.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 95


changes in the regulatory framework, as well as recent developments or incidents are monitored on an ongoing basis to evaluate their possible impact on OMV’s current risk exposure. This ongoing risk analysis also includes an institutionalized semiannual risk analysis, which is part of OMV’s Enterprise-Wide Risk Management (EWRM).
Preventing corruption risk in operations. 
Before we launch activities in a new country, we perform a thorough analysis of business ethics and sanction law issues in that country. The Business Ethics Entry Assessment includes an analysis of the Corruption Perception Index assigned by Transparency International to a given country. Based on the outcome of the assessment, corporate governance in local operations is adapted to assure compliance with OMV’s ethical standards.
In 2019, our Internal Audit department carried out 18 internal compliance audits across the full range of business ethics issues (thereof 10 at OMV and 8 at OMV Petrom). Risk-related audits covering fraud and corruption issues form an integral part of the Corporate Internal Audit. Additional preventive measures were set up for OMV Petrom, such as third-party background checks of OMV Petrom’s business partners.
Zero incidents of corruption; zero incidents when contracts with business partners or employees were terminated or not renewed due to violations related to corruption; and zero public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organization or its employees during the reporting period. 
Company management is committed to establishing and maintaining an ethical standard of trust and integrity in our day-to-day business. Our senior management signs a Compliance Declaration to confirm that their conduct is in line with the Code of Business Ethics. New senior management also receives onboarding to introduce OMV integrity standards. It is of strategic importance for us to make sure that every single employee is fully aware of our ethical values and principles. This mission is one of the targets of our Sustainability Strategy 2025.
Zero legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding anti-corruption behavior and violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation in which the organization has been identified as a participant. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 96


Sustainability Strategy 2025 target Promote awareness of ethical values and principles: conduct inperson or online business ethics trainings for all employees. 
Status 2019. 
Action plan to achieve the target. 
Communication with stakeholders. 
Besides raising employee awareness through training, we have established channels to help identify ethical misconduct at an early stage. Timely notification is crucial for taking precautionary measures directed at avoiding or mitigating major financial loss or reputational harm. If an employee observes or becomes aware of potential or actual misconduct or violation of internal rules or statutory regulations, whether committed by other employees or by a business partner, that employee is encouraged to speak up and report the incident.
Besides employees, other stakeholders also represent a valuable source of information which can help identify breaches of ethical standards. To this end, the OMV Group has introduced a whistleblower mechanism – the Integrity Platform. Anyone can access it online (omv-group.integrityplatform.org) and report an issue relating to corruption, bribes, conflicts of interest, anti-trust law, or capital markets law. The report can be filed anonymously, if desired. It will be analyzed and the answer provided within ten days through the same platform. Identified violations of ethical standards will be handled further by the Whistleblowing Committee, which includes members of senior management.
Tax transparency. 
Our business activities generate a substantial amount and variety of taxes. We pay corporate income taxes, royalties, production taxes, stamp duties, employment and other taxes. In addition, we collect and remit payroll taxes as well as indirect taxes, such as excise duties and VAT. The taxes we collect and pay represent a significant part of our economic contribution to the countries in which we operate. At OMV, we are committed to complying with tax laws in a responsible manner and to having open and constructive relationships with tax authorities, which is also reflected in OMV’s Tax Strategy.
Our tax planning supports OMV’s business and reflects our commercial and economic activity. OMV does not engage in aggressive tax planning which consists of artificial structures put in place merely to save taxes or of transactions lacking economic substance aimed at obtaining undue tax advantages.
OMV Group companies are established in suitable jurisdictions, giving consideration to our business activities and the prevailing regulatory environment available. OMV does not establish its subsidiaries in countries that do not follow international standards of transparency and exchange of information on tax matters, unless justified by operational requirements in line with OMV’s business ethics principles and our Code of Conduct.
In 2019, OMV introduced a Group-wide online training program for business ethics. 11,144 employees completed the online training.
In addition, face-to-face business ethics trainings were conducted with 514 employees.
By 2020: implementation of the business ethics e-learning program in the continuous education and development program for all employees. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 97


Since 2016, OMV has been providing mandatory disclosures under the Payment to Government Directive (according to Section 267c of the Austrian Commercial Code) and publishes its payments made to governments in connection with exploration and extraction activities, such as production entitlements, taxes, or royalties, in the consolidated financial statements. (For more details, see the Consolidated Report on the Payments Made to Governments in the Annual Report 2019.)
In addition, OMV reports payments made to public authorities, such as taxes or royalties in connection with exploration and extraction activities in countries that are members of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI).
Human rights. 
Human rights are universal values that guide our conduct in every aspect of our activities. We have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2003 and are fully committed to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We continuously work on improving our human rights management systems, due diligence processes, and performance by learning from international experience and good practice. We are part of the UN Global Compact Network Austria and a member of IPIECA and benefit from professional support of internationally recognized thirdparty experts.
We are active in countries where human rights are not always respected and protected in accordance with internationally accepted human rights standards. The primary responsibility for the protection of human rights lies with governments. However, OMV recognizes its responsibility to respect, fulfill, and support human rights in all business activities and to ensure that OMV does not become complicit in any human rights abuses as defined under current international law. In 2019, we were active in 12 countries with elevated human rights risks. As a company, we must therefore be aware of any human rights impact we may have. We must ensure that we do not violate human rights while conducting our business activities. In meeting our human rights responsibilities, OMV acts in strict compliance with applicable national law. In order to ensure that the national legal framework is in line with OMV’s human rights standards, we conduct a Human Rights Country Entry Check before launching operations in a country. Where national law falls short of OMV standards, which are based on international human rights law, OMV is guided by its higher standards unless this is in contradiction with applicable law.
Our employees, contractors, public authorities, legislators, investors, shareholders, communities, customers, and NGOs all expect us to respect and uphold human rights. The demand by our stakeholders that we respect human rights defines the drivers of our related policies listed in the diagram.
Drivers of OMV’s human rights policy. 
Legal framework. 
Risk management. 
Financing institutions. 
Reputation management. 
Shareholder expectations. 
Reporting standards. 
Social license to operate. 
Stakeholder expectations. 
Competitive advantages. 
Corporate culture. 
Human rights. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 98


Human rights management. 
The OMV Human Rights Policy Statement sets out our understanding of and responsibility for respecting and upholding human rights in our business environment. It has been approved by the Executive Board and serves as our guiding principle for dealing with human rights issues in all aspects of our daily business.
The overall accountability for our compliance with human rights lies with the respective business heads. Locally based human rights officers conduct due diligence at the operating facilities with the support of two human rights managers at Group level (at OMV and OMV Petrom). Action plans and mitigation measures are implemented and reported by the respective functions, depending on which aspect of human rights is in question. Thus, the Human Resources department would deal with human rights issues related to labor rights, the Procurement department is responsible for managing human rights issues in the supply chain, the HSSE department is responsible for securityrelated human rights issues, and the Community Relations and Development function implements OMV policy related to human rights impact on communities and indigenous peoples. Internationally recognized third-party experts support OMV in conducting the due diligence on the Company’s exposure to human rights risks.
Since 2008, we have mapped our human rights responsibilities in a comprehensive Human Rights Matrix designed to serve as the foundation for our activities in this area. We use this tool to assess our human rights challenges and activities and prioritize our actions as essential, expected, or desirable in defense of human rights. We regularly review the priorities in our Matrix and redefine them in accordance with international best practice and the latest developments in the human rights field.
The OMV Human Rights Matrix covers responsibilities in the following areas:
OMV holds itself responsible for protecting the human rights of our employees (issues such as non-discrimination, decent wages, working hours, employee representation) as well as of the outside world, for example our suppliers, communities, indigenous people, and society as a whole. Our external responsibilities in the area of human rights include, but are not limited to, equality and non-discrimination, security, primary health care, labor rights in the supply chain (such as fair wages and working hours), education, poverty reduction, land rights, and free, prior, and informed consultation. We specifically concentrate on the impact of our activities on the human rights of vulnerable groups, such as indigenous peoples, women, and children.
According to the UN Guiding Principles, an effective grievance mechanism is a crucial instrument for ensuring compliance with our human rights commitment and a source of continuous learning for improving company human rights performance. At OMV, human rights grievances from community members and suppliers are submitted through the Community Grievance Mechanism, and then analyzed locally and at Group level. No incidents related to child labor, forced labor, violation of indigenous peoples’ rights, or other human rights violations were reported in 2019 (2018: no incidents). OMV has assessed its Community Grievance Mechanisms against the UN Effectiveness Criteria at OMV Petrom, in Austrian Upstream operations, and at the Austrian refinery in Schwechat and has started an assessment at the Burghausen refinery in Germany. This involves consulting our external stakeholders about the effectiveness of the available grievance channels. (For more information about the Community Grievance Mechanism and the assessments, see Community Relations and Development.)
OMV employees also have various channels for bringing forward issues and grievances related to human rights. For instance, the Integrity Platform is available to anyone in the Group (for more details, see Communication with stake-
Human rights risk management in general, including compliance with national and international standards, human rights training, the grievance mechanism, and organizational structures. 
Equality and non-discrimination, including the implementation of appropriate guidelines and awareness training measures. 
Security, including preventive, defensive, and community-oriented approaches to security; clear guidelines; supervision and trainings. 
Health and safety, including OMV health and safety management as well as community arrangements. 
Labor rights, including decent wages, working hours, employee representation, and provisions against forced labor, child labor, and human trafficking. 
The right to education, including training for employees as well as support for basic education in surrounding communities. 
Property and standard of living, including land rights and poverty reduction. 
Local communities and indigenous peoples, including consultation based on free, prior, and informed consent, IFC Performance Standard 739 and ILO Convention 16940. 
Privacy and family life, including personal data protection and appropriate living and working conditions 39 The IFC (International Finance Corporation) Performance Standard on Indigenous Peoples recognizes that indigenous peoples, as social groups with identities that are distinct from mainstream groups in national societies, are often among the most marginalized and vulnerable segments of the population.
40 The Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, ILO (International Labour Organization) Convention 169, is the major binding international convention recognizing the specific rights of indigenous peoples.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 99


holders). PetrOmbudsman at OMV Petrom is where employees and management can have confidential, off-therecord, informal discussions and address issues related to the workplace. Moreover, employees can bring forward their concerns related to discrimination, employee representation in challenging environments, and maternal protection in direct dialogue with human rights managers, human resources business partners, and Works Council members.
Human rights due diligence. 
OMV has developed due diligence tools and techniques to assess the risk of human rights violations related to our business, even before we launch or acquire business in a new country. Human rights are one of the decision-making components determining OMV’s engagement in a given country and are presented to the respective Executive Board member before taking a decision to engage in a country. We use these assessments to derive concrete measures to reduce the risk of direct and indirect involvement in potential human rights violations. At all stages of the human rights due diligence process, we use the OMV Human Rights Matrix as a common standard, mapping reality on the ground against the concrete responsibilities as defined in the Matrix and identifying any gaps we need to focus on. This approach ensures that any potential human rights impact of our business activities is identified – whether this relates to non-discrimination and diversity, labor-related issues (e.g., minimum wage, adequate rest times), indigenous peoples’ rights, or human rights in the supply chain.
In 2019, we commissioned a Human Rights Country Entry Check for Indonesia by an external human rights expert. This check provided an analysis of ongoing human rights issues and the resulting potential legal, reputational, and operational risks associated with our planned engagement in the country. We identified general country concerns related to labor rights (such as union rights, migrant workers’ rights, health and safety at work), human rights in the supply chain (such as the risk of child and forced labor), land issues, and indigenous peoples’ rights. Depending on the level and type of future engagement in the country, these could potentially become concrete human rights risks. We elaborated and integrated potential risk mitigation measures into the further business development process in Indonesia.
In Malaysia, SapuraOMV developed a SapuraOMV Human Rights Policy Statement, which is planned to be signed by the SapuraOMV Executive Board and published on the subsidiary’s website. Human rights aspects will be integrated into a planned environmental and social impact assessment in 2020.
Our current operations are also subjected to regular assessments of their exposure to the risk of human rights violations. Due diligence starts with an Initial Risk Ranking at country level: Every country we operate in (or plan to operate in) is assessed based on comprehensive humanrights-related data and on consultation with internal and external experts. The countries are ranked by low, medium, and high risk, countries with highest manageable risk, and “no-go” countries with unmanageable risk. Based on this ranking, we develop our yearly work plan, defining further due diligence actions and human rights training. In 2019, country operations were informed about the outcome of the annual Country Risk Ranking, including information about the main human rights challenges as well as recommended mitigation measures and training options.
The Human Rights Self-Assessment is one of the tools we use to assess the effectiveness of our human rights due diligence approach. Such assessments create internal awareness, capture our self-perception of our human rights performance, and facilitate the definition of gaps and further actions. In 2019, a Human Rights Self-Assessment was conducted in Yemen, where managers of departments dealing with human-rights-related topics – Human Resources, HSSE, Procurement, Community Relations, and others – were asked to fill out a questionnaire. It captured the selfperception of OMV Yemen with regard to compliance with the OMV Human Rights Policy Statement and Matrix in the country. An independent external expert assessed the plausibility of responses in light of available human rights country data. Based on the expert’s recommendations, OMV Yemen developed an action plan covering the areas of security, supply chain management, community development, and labor rights (maternity leave) in order to mitigate the risk of any negative impact on human rights and increase positive impact of our engagement in the challenging environment of Yemen. As one of the follow-up measures, OMV Yemen has revised their maternity leave regulation and expanded the duration of maternity leave to ILO (International Labour Organization) standards. This way OMV closed the gap between compliance with the applicable national law standards and international standards,
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 100


which are more demanding in terms of labor rights protection. We are aware about a general rise in child labor and forced labor as well as the challenging security situation in Yemen and therefore pay particular attention to using all our professional contractor relations tools to identify any related problems. (For more information about contractor management, see Supply Chain.)
As a follow-up to the recommendations of the Human Rights Self-Assessment at OMV Petrom in Romania in 2018, the following key measures have been implemented:
OMV strongly opposes forced labor, slavery, child labor, and human trafficking. We therefore fully support the aims of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and are committed to operating our business and supply chain free from forced labor, slavery, and human trafficking. The OMV Statement against Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking explains in detail the measures taken against modern slavery and human trafficking in all parts of the business and supply chain. The statement is updated annually and signed by the Executive Board in accordance with the requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and is available on our website: www.omv.com/en/human-rights. 
OMV participated in a consultation round of the IPIECA Human Rights Working Group in 2019 and contributed to the consolidated IPIECA response to the UK Government, who was gathering views on several proposed amendments to the UK Modern Slavery Act. In addition, OMV has engaged in dialogue with Corporate Human Rights Benchmark and was included in their assessment for the first time in 2019.
Human rights training. 
We conduct classroom trainings on human rights, which equip our employees with an understanding of our Human Rights Management System and give them a space to work on concrete operational issues and local challenges. Additionally, all employees are strongly encouraged to complete an interactive e-learning training, which guides them through norms and situations with regard to human rights. Across OMV, 47% of all employees received training on human rights in 2019.
In the framework of the Sustainability Strategy 2025, we have committed ourselves to train all employees exposed to human rights risks by 2025. This target group consists of employees responsible or accountable for the implementation of our human rights responsibilities (Human Resources, Security, Site Management, HSSE Auditing, Community Relations/Community Development, Procurement) working in countries with elevated human rights risks or in corporate functions. By the end of 2019, 533 employees from the target group were trained, which constitutes 82% of the entire target group.41. 
In 2019, 183 individuals (63 of the target group) participated in human rights classroom trainings in Austria, Libya, Tunisia, UAE, and Yemen. Specific training was conducted for security managers. The participants were introduced to the basic concepts of human rights and their relevance to OMV. They also learned about the tools and processes for implementing OMV’s Human Rights Risk Management, got to know the human rights responsibilities of their own roles, and discussed concrete operational challenges and opportunities with regard to human rights.
OMV Petrom’s practice of wage deductions was analyzed in detail and full compliance with international standards was determined.
An internal awareness campaign against discrimination, sexual harassment, and violence was launched.
The Community Grievance Mechanism has been subjected to an external assessment. (For more information, see Community Relations and Development.)
Our human rights expert cooperates closely with Procurement in order to ensure the full inclusion of human rights in the supplier auditing program.
41 Compared to the previous year, the target group has decreased from 1,136 to 654 persons (3.3% of the total workforce). This is the result of a more precise selection of the target group based on standardized personnel data from the various companies.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 101


With the launch of the new OMV learning platform, human rights e-learning was added to all employees’ training curriculum globally. This module is an interactive 30-minute training session that teaches a basic understanding of human rights in general and their relevance to our business specifically. It provides an opportunity for employees to test their knowledge using concrete real-life examples. 9,194 employees (494 of the target group) completed the human rights e-learning course in 2019.
We also implement internal awareness-raising campaigns throughout the Group. We informed all our operational countries’ business heads about their country’s human rights risk level. We provided information about the main challenges and recommended due diligence steps and trainings where applicable. We also conducted a human rights awareness campaign on the occasion of the International Human Rights Day on December 10. All employees Group-wide were informed about our commitment and invited to complete the human rights e-learning program.
Sustainability Strategy 2025 target Conduct human rights trainings for all employees exposed to human rights risks42 by 2025. 
Status 2019. 
Action plan to achieve the target 82% of target group trained. 
Annual internal awareness campaign on Human Rights Day. 
Human rights classroom training session for corporate functions in Vienna and Bucharest. 
Human rights classroom training sessions for potential new countries with elevated risk. 
Human rights training for employees in Malaysia. 
Further promotion of human rights e-learning across the Group 42 654 employees in corporate functions managing human rights risks and in the corresponding functions in countries with elevated human rights risks. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 102


Supply chain. 
OMV applies its sourcing and logistics expertise to ensure that the highest-quality materials and services are provided through our supply chain. We aim to foster innovation, to maximize value contribution, and to enable growth of the supply chain in line with both our Corporate and Sustainability Strategies. It is of ultimate importance for us to stay fully compliant with applicable legal require- ments as well as with our internal standards in areas of safety, environmental protection, and human rights when managing our supply chain.
In this context, our “Create Value” vision of supply chain management focuses on establishing effective and impactful procurement operations while improving efficiency and simplifying processes.
Create Value. 
Effectiveness & impact | Procurement & beneficiaries as partners continuously optimize cost1, quality, and supply-side innovation. 
Efficiency & simplicity | Simple interfaces, reduced coordination effort, fast response. 
Effective management Partner in OMV Strong team Lean organization. 
Thought partner for business. 
Challenge business to improve quality of Procurement decisions. 
Solution orientation. 
Compliance ensured. 
Simple, efficient processes. 
Clear interface to business. 
End-to-end responsibility. 
State-of-the-art skills (procurement tools, market, etc.)
Technical skills. 
Continuous development. 
One goal for business: adding value. 
Full transparency. 
Global accountability. 
Contractor/supplier management. 
OMV Foundation | Team Spirit, Accountability, Passion, Pioneering Spirit, Performance 1 Total cost of ownership/life cycle costs. 
Supplier sustainability compliance. 
Our suppliers must follow the legal requirements and the internal rules and standards applicable to OMV. Our Code of Conduct stipulates that suppliers must support OMV’s Principles. This mitigates supply chain risks, such as forced labor, slavery, human trafficking, and corruption. Suppliers are obliged to comply fully with the content of the Code of Conduct, and all supply chain partners are required to sign the Code of Conduct.
Tools such as evaluations and audits assess and monitor supplier compliance with the principles outlined in OMV’s Code of Conduct.
Since 2017, OMV has conducted assessments at selected strategic suppliers in the areas of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) performance. During the ESG assessment of suppliers, OMV also inquires about carbon targets and environmental programs (potentially including. 
GHG reduction). For 2019, we performed 6 ESG assessments. Most of the suppliers assessed met our requirements. Further areas for optimization and improvement were identified and agreed upon.
OMV also conducts supplier audits that include sustainability elements. For instance, one of the elements covered in the audits relates to environmental management and certification, including energy management and therefore the impact of a supplier activity on GHG emissions. Other HSSE topics and business ethics, social responsibility, and human rights are also covered.
OMV has established a strategic target for conducting supplier audits with sustainability elements. In 2019, we performed 11 audits with sustainability topics covered.
Furthermore, we perform yearly subject-specific audits on topics such as process safety, quality, and efficiency. In 2019, we completed 85% of the targeted audit plan, with. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 103


66% of the audits resulting in follow-up measures. By the end of 2019, 63% of the suppliers that were identified as needing to implement follow-up measures had completed more than 75% of the respective measures. The others will be completed according to an agreed plan in 2020.
Sustainability Strategy 2025 target Increase the number of supplier audits covering sustainability elements to >20 per year by 202543. 
Status 2019. 
Action plan to achieve the target. 
Corporate and legal HSSE requirements are communicated to potential suppliers at the tender stage. OMV assesses the HSSE risks of potential suppliers and ranks them in the OMV Risk Matrix. For suppliers who present a potential risk to OMV, we conduct a more in-depth analysis of compliance in line with OMV’s Contractor HSSE Management Standard. Crude transportation partners are subjected to an additional assessment against the TMSA (Tanker Management and Self-Assessment) Standard, as OMV is a member of the OCIMF (Oil Companies International Marine Forum).
Supplier risk assessments are conducted on an annual basis and verifications are done on suppliers’ HSSE performance based on inspections and audits of monitored KPIs. Final evaluations, including HSSE and social responsibility performance, are communicated to the Procurement department by the parties conducting the evaluations for further contractual management actions. OMV reserves the right to terminate relationships with suppliers if noncompliance with applicable policies is discovered or noncompliance is not addressed in a timely manner. OMV has a process in place aimed at ensuring that parties sanctioned by the EU or international organizations, such as the United Nations, are not accepted as procurement partners.
We also provide a reverse engagement channel to our suppliers, whereby suppliers can use our Community Grievance Mechanism to communicate any concerns related to. 
OMV activities in their local area. (For more information on the Community Grievance Mechanism, see Community Relations and Development.)
Local procurement and suppliers’ engagement. 
Local procurement creates added-value in our local communities. Spending with local suppliers accounted for 81% of total expenditures in 2019, with local expenditures in Austria amounting to 75% and in Romania to 91%.
In line with our aim to always consider the impact of our actions on the local environment, our intention is to continuously improve our local content approach. We support local suppliers to improve their capabilities, which will help them meet higher technical, HSSE, and business standards. Our ESG assessments and various audits help suppliers understand critical issues in sustainability management and performance and foster their further development in this area based on the gaps resulting from the assessment.
We also promote direct communication with suppliers to explain the sustainability performance OMV expects from suppliers. As an example, the Procurement department collaborates with the Community Relations and Development team in Yemen to conduct an initial procurement workshop for the local companies. Twenty-seven companies were invited to a two-session workshop in Aden 11 audits in 2019. 
Perform more than 10 audits in 2020 also covering sustainability topics. 
Yearly increase until 2025 43 Suppliers in scope for this target are active suppliers (at least one purchase order in past year) who meet certain criteria such as procurement spend and strategic fit.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 104


City. The objective of the workshops was to increase the capacity of the local suppliers to participate and win tenders. We have observed in the past years that many local suppliers encounter difficulties in fulfilling OMV’s tender requirements. Therefore, the purpose of this initiative was to give the local suppliers insights about our requirements and to explain how to fulfill them. In addition, CSR requirements were included in the tender requirements for the first time. Among the topics discussed with the suppliers were tender procedures; HSSE and CSR requirements; OMV’s approach toward local suppliers; current performance; and opportunities for improvement.
OMV has also established a program of scientific and technical cooperation and partnership with Gazprom ‒ OMV’s partner in the supply of natural gas. The companies jointly work on various research initiatives, including energysaving technologies, and activities related to the transportation and storage of hydrogen-enriched gas.
Role of digitalization in supply chain management. 
OMV continues its journey toward procurement digitalization. OMV further developed the SAP Ariba modules already in place since 2018 by adding Supplier Risk.
Understanding a supplier’s risk is an important factor in deciding whether and how we do business with the supplier.
Through SAP Ariba, we can now receive daily alerts about our registered suppliers. The alerts are assigned a low, medium, or high risk level. The risk is calculated automatically based on around 150 incidents collected from publicly available information, such as newspapers, press releases, company homepages, etc. The incidents are split into four risk categories: Environmental and Social, Finance, Regulatory and Legal, and Operations. In 2019, we defined a supplier risk monitoring process in full alignment with OMV’s risk management approach. Based on this process, we perform several analyses to check whether the alerts received would prevent us from continuing to work with the respective supplier. The outcome of such analyses is also shared with the supplier as a next step to introduce further mitigation measures, such as verification, follow-up actions, etc. The process ends with an internal analysis concluding whether continuing our partnership with the respective supplier is recommended or not.
The digital integration of all these risk elements into one system, SAP Ariba, will simplify the information evaluation process, improve the mitigation management plan and, last but not least, support our supply chain in improving its preventive risk management process.
Community relations and development. 
For OMV, transparency, trust, and partnership-based relations with local communities are key to ensuring we are a responsible and welcomed neighbor wherever we operate. Adding value to the communities in which we operate is key to securing our operations for the future.
We acknowledge that the presence of OMV’s business has direct and indirect impacts on local communities. We aim to steer the impacts of our business activities in a positive direction by building and maintaining mutual trust and pursuing respect-based community relations, investing in local development, safeguarding human rights, and ensuring that local suppliers who work with OMV follow sustainable practices. (For more information on OMV’s involvement in these areas, see Human Rights and Supply Chain.) Community development investments are always aligned with identified local needs and made in consultation with local stakeholders, as well as in consideration of country priorities with regard to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Our community relations and development management process is based on centralized policies and targets and implemented by locally responsible persons with local resources. We start by conducting a Social Impact Assessment (SIA), which includes free and prior informed consultation with and consent of local stakeholders. Sometimes, an SIA is integrated into an Environmental Impact Assessment (ESIA) to foster synergies and efficiencies. The purpose of an SIA is to ensure that the views of the local communities, especially of indigenous peoples, are incorporated and addressed throughout all phases of the project life cycle: commencement, operational phase, and decommissioning or abandonment. We also pay particular attention to any possible impact on human rights. Based on the internal regulation for conducting SIAs, we include a baseline study, community needs assessments, stake-
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 105


holder analyses, and a study of social risks associated with the project. Where possible, SIAs are conducted in a participatory manner by directly consulting with potentially affected communities. Based on the SIA’s outcome, sitespecific strategies for community relations and development, stakeholder engagement plans as well as Community Grievance Mechanisms are developed and implemented. We contribute to community development through community or social investments.44 These are prioritized based on the local needs identified as part of the SIA and their potential for an impactful contribution to the SDGs most relevant for targeted areas. Our community and social investments are focused on preventing or mitigating social risks and positioning OMV as a socially responsible company vis-à-vis our stakeholders.
The Group level function governs and steers community relations and development implementation across operational countries, receives regular reporting and feedback from local social responsibility managers, and monitors and ensures that the Group guidelines on community relations and development are adhered to. We hold structured regular alignment meetings with our local social responsibility managers to monitor and steer local implementation of our site-specific global community relations and development commitments. We also organize regular exchanges among all countries in order to share challenges and best-practice experiences as a supplement to the guidance provided. In 2019, we reviewed our internal social responsibility standard and management processes. The review resulted in even deeper integration of human rights aspects into the community relations and development management process and introduction of a guideline for public communication of SIA outcomes to affected stakeholders.
Community relations and development management activities are reviewed in each country in which we operate in accordance with business developments. In 2019, we began conducting an ESIA in Libya in consultation with stakeholders in the Sirte region. Also in 2019, we reviewed our site-specific strategy for community relations and development in Yemen and updated this in response to changing stakeholder needs and OMV’s business position in this country. Following our entry into Malaysia in early 2019, we began the integration of Malaysian assets into our OMV community relations and development management activities.
In adherence to the internal community relations and development procedure, all OMV projects require community consultation in the development phase. In 2019, two out of five projects were in the process of community consultation.
Community grievance management. 
Our approach to managing community grievances follows the precautionary principle of ensuring local approval for OMV operations by identifying and resolving the issues of concern to the local community early on. We strive to conduct our operations in a way that limits any disruption to our neighboring communities to a minimum; however, grievances may still arise. We manage these grievances through localized Community Grievance Mechanisms (CGMs). At OMV, a CGM is a key tool for preventing and managing our potential impacts on local communities and related social risks. The CGM stipulates a stringent approach to systematically receiving, documenting, addressing, and resolving grievances in all of the countries where we operate, therefore laying the foundation for our social license to operate. We define a grievance as an expression of dissatisfaction stemming from a real or perceived impact of the Company’s business activities. The CGM remained fully operational in all operated Upstream assets, in the three OMV refineries (Schwechat in Austria, Burghausen in Germany, and Petrobrazi in Romania), and at one power plant (Brazi in Romania).
During 2019, we received 1,196 grievances (640 grievances relating to our impact on society45 received/531 resolved; 556 grievances concerning an impact on the environment46 received/392 resolved; zero human rights grievances received47). The open cases will be handled during 2020.
In the interest of full alignment with IPIECA’s best practice for grievance management, OMV has set a target to assess the CGMs at all of its sites against the UN Effectiveness Criteria for Non-Judicial Grievance Mechanisms by 2025. The UN Effectiveness Criteria require the grievance mechanism to be legitimate, accessible, predictable, equitable, transparent, rights-compatible, a source of continuous learning, and based on engagement and dialogue.
In 2019, the assessments in Romania and Austria were finalized and the assessment at the Burghausen refinery in Germany conducted. The assessments were performed by a third-party independent consulting firm. The alignment of CGMs to UN Effectiveness Criteria is assessed by conducting a management processes review and consulting with internal and external stakeholders. The assessments result in recommendations and tailored action plans to improve grievance management at site level. The action plans are implemented by local management and monitored by the Corporate function. The sites already assessed represent 96% of all registered grievances at OMV in 2019. We will conduct assessments of the CGMs according to the UN Effectiveness Criteria at additional OMV sites in 2020.
44 Community investments respond to identified community needs and are designed to mitigate social risks resulting from OMV operations. Social investments address the needs of people and society more broadly.
45 The Social Progress Index, developed by the Social Progress Imperative, is a comprehensive measure of real quality of life, independent of economic indicators across coun- tries. More details can be found at: www.socialprogress.org.
46 Environment category grievances include land degradation, water pollution, air pollution, etc. 47 Human Rights category grievances are related to the “Essential” rights category in the OMV Human Rights Matrix: e.g., disproportionate use of force by security, incidents related to indigenous peoples rights, cases of forced or child labor.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 106


Our operational Community Grievance Mechanism in Romania was the first one to be assessed against the UN Effectiveness Criteria. Romanian grievances account for a vast majority of all community grievances in the OMV Group. This pilot assessment took place in 2018. During 2019 a cross-departmental working group was formed to implement the resulting action plan. Subsequently the way community grievances were managed at OMV Petrom was redesigned as follows:
Sustainability Strategy 2025 target Assess Community Grievance Mechanisms of all sites against UN Effectiveness Criteria48 by 2025. 
Status 2019. 
Action plan to achieve the target. 
Expanded access points to enhance accessibility and equitability: Grievances can now be expressed through e-mail, phone, or through representative organizations.
Increased transparency and predictability of the CGM process for our stakeholders via standardized replies to grievances submitted. 
Greater legitimacy and equitability of decisions by providing an option for appeal. 
KPI monitoring established to allow for continuous learning. 
On track: 5 out of 10 sites in scope49 assessed (Romania Upstream, Petrobrazi refinery in Romania, Austria Upstream, Schwechat refinery in Austria, Burghausen refinery in Germany)
Assess at least 2 sites per year 48 UN Effectiveness Criteria for Non-Judicial Grievance Mechanisms as set out in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The UN Effectiveness Cri- teria require the grievance mechanism to be legitimate, accessible, predictable, equitable, transparent, rights-compatible, a source of continuous learning, and based on engagement and dialogue.
49 The target scope includes production sites where OMV is an operator. In 2019, a Community Grievance Mechanism was operational at ten sites: seven in Upstream (Austria, Romania, Tunisia, New Zealand, Norway, Yemen, Kazakhstan) and three in Downstream (Austria, Romania, Germany).
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 107


Community and social investments. 
We implement our community development projects as investments, therefore expecting each project to generate a return for our communities or society more broadly. We prioritize projects with a potential to generate long-term societal value and make a lasting change to beneficiaries’ lives. Community and social investments are aligned with SDGs and community needs identified during SIAs or with larger societal priorities (e.g., by consulting the Social Progress Index50). We aim to implement our projects in partnership with locally active stakeholders or non-governmental organizations to ensure a maximum social return on our investment. Key OMV focus areas for our community and social investments are:51. 
In 2019, we strengthened our management approach to community and social investments and enhanced the steering and monitoring of our contributions in cash and in kind and our management costs as well as the expected social and environmental impacts. In line with the growing importance of climate topics, we also introduced a new climate-related KPI, CO2 equivalent saved/offset, to our community and social investment portfolio. OMV community and social investments funding is prioritized in countries with the highest socio-economic development needs and/ or where we have the biggest business footprint.
2019 Investments by main SDGs and by beneficiaries 1.3 mn beneficiaries 20.8 mn EUR. 
SDG 12: Responsible Consumption & Production. 
SDG 13: Climate Action. 
SDG 15: Life on Land. 
SDG 17: Partnerships for the Goals. 
Other SDGs supported to a smaller degree. 
SDG 1: No Poverty. 
SDG 3: Good Health & Wellbeing. 
SDG 4: Quality Education. 
SDG 5: Gender Equality. 
SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation. 
SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy. 
SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth. 
SDG 11: Sustainable Cities & Communities. 
SDG 3 SDG 3. 
SDG 4. 
SDG 4. 
SDG 6. 
SDG 11 SDG 12 SDG 13. 
SDG 16 SDG 1. 
SDG 7 SDG 8. 
SDG 5 SDG 7. 
SDG 8. 
SDG 11. 
SDG 17. 
SDG 13. 
SDG 15. 
Access to basic services. 
Education, entrepreneurship, and employment. 
Climate action. 
EUR 20.8 mn in community and social investments52 258 community and social investments in 18 countries 1.3 mn beneficiaries reached 7,900 employee volunteers 50 The Social Progress Index, developed by the Social Progress Imperative, is a comprehensive measure of real quality of life, independent of economic indicators across coun- tries. More details can be found at: www.socialprogress.org.
51 Other SDGs, such as SDG 9, 11, 15, 16 are supported to a lesser extent. 52 Includes contributions in-cash, contributions in-kind, and donations; excludes related management overheads. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 108


Culture and sports sponsoring. 
In addition to community and social investments, we also sponsor sports (e.g., soccer, ski jumping) and cultural activities. Culture, entertainment, and sports are key elements for people’s well-being. We therefore aim to make sports and cultural events accessible to young people from disadvantaged backgrounds. In 2019, we invited more than 800 schoolchildren and children in need from our surrounding communities in Austria to a Christmas concert at the Vienna State Opera. Also in 2019, 80 kids from our Max & Lara social investment partnership attended five events, such as matches played by Rapid, an Austrian football club that we sponsor.
Corporate volunteering. 
The OMV Group’s employees are also encouraged to personally play an active part in sustainability initiatives, including by volunteering. We offer OMV employees oppor- tunities to actively engage in encouraging responsible and sustainable behavior and facilitate employee engagement and involvement with charitable partners.
Employees can be individual supporters (e.g. through donations or fund raising campaigns)
Employees engage through supporting NPOs/NGOs with planting, cleaning or refurbishing capacities. 
My own engagement. 
My hands-on engagement. 
My skills-based engagement. 
Energy for a better life. 
Employees support through their knowledge and expertise. 
We have an internal mechanism to manage, report, and communicate Group-wide volunteering activities in line with specific targets according to the key focus areas for our community and social investments. In 2019, we began developing a volunteering standard, which will enhance our volunteering reporting with hours volunteered across the Group.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 109


Community and social investment highlights 2019. 
Impact snapshot: access to basic services for health, water, and food. 
In 2019, we invested in infrastructure to improve access to basic services, such as health care and water. Our investments focused especially on underprivileged groups or areas with limited access to basic services in our operating countries. Our investments in basic human needs are also in line with our commitment to respecting human rights.
In Romania, OMV Petrom contributed EUR 10 mn to support the construction of the first Children’s Oncological Hospital in Bucharest, the largest single corporate donation in Romanian history. It is estimated that more than 500 children are diagnosed with cancer in Romania every year – over half of them are treated in the two existing centers in Bucharest, which cannot adequately meet their needs. The new hospital will have the capacity to serve 300 little patients a year and significantly increase the country’s capacity to treat pediatric cancer.
In November 2019, also in Romania, 50 colleagues from PetroMed – doctors and nurses – voluntarily joined the Medical Doctors’ Caravan association. This pilot project provides community-based health care in Valea Mare, Dâmbovița county. As a result, 145 retired and low-income people received free medical examinations and consultations.
In Austria, OMV is a major financial contributor to the “Cape 10: House of the Future and Social Innovation” project – an innovative social and health services center for people in need in Vienna. Our funds will help establish low-cost health services for women and children in need. In 2019, ten OMV volunteers participated in a Street Festival fundraising event, which raised additional funds for the project.
1 mn people gain access to health services in Libya, Yemen, and Romania.
8,500 people gain access to water in Yemen.
100,000 people experiencing poverty receive hot meals in Austria.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 110


In Libya, our investments contributed to providing essential medical supplies to Benghazi Children’s Hospital, helping around 1 mn people get necessary medical assistance. We also finalized our sustainable development program in the Sirte region with the delivery of a fire truck to improve the emergency response capability of the town of Gialo. In 2019, OMV committed an additional EUR 4.6 mn in social investments in Libya to address the social challenges in neighboring communities by signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with its partners in Libya and the National Oil Corporation (NOC). Funds will be directed to projects that improve access to medical services and water and create opportunities for youth, reaching over 500,000 beneficiaries in the coming years.
In Yemen, our health clinic remained open to local communities, providing essential medical support in the very remote areas where we operate. Our Health team provides medical support, treatments and checkups for conditions including hypertension, diabetes, and cardiovascular issues as well as psychiatric support and pediatric services to people from nearby settlements. Local communities can also use our 24/7 emergency medical services in case of emergency situations, for example, heart attacks, animal or insect bites, traffic accidents, and similar. In 2019, we also ran a vaccination cam- paign for local communities to fill in the gaps in national health services. In 2019, on average more than 100 local people received medical assistance in the OMV health clinic each month.
OMV operates in countries experiencing high water stress. We therefore continued to invest in water access infrastructure for neighboring populations in Tunisia and Yemen in 2019. In Tunisia, we committed to rebuilding a water reservoir for the Kembout community, located at the entrance of the desert oil fields, as part of a joint OMV CSR initiative with the National Oil Company ETAP and Eni and Medco in southern Tunisia. The project is being implemented in partnership with the national water company, SONEDE, and replaces an existing water reservoir. It will ensure the supply of freshwater for 1,000 community members. In Yemen, we started two water access projects in 2019, one in the AlMahood area and another in Bakaila village. The AlMahood project will provide two water tanks, one ground reservoir, and a second hillelevated water storage reservoir to the water authority. This project will benefit more than 8,500 people from 27 neighboring villages (estimated completion in 2020). The second project involves building a water storage facility in Bakaila village, which will facilitate easy access to clean drinking water from an existing water source for around 2,000 people.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 111


Access to food and nutrition is another area of our focus. In Austria, we collaborate with Wiener Tafel – a charity organization helping people affected by poverty in Vienna and reducing food waste. Through this collaboration, 24 employee volunteers had a chance to personally engage in Wiener Tafel’s work. In 2019, we handed over the donation raised in the winter employee engagement campaign, which, when doubled by OMV, amounted to EUR 9,772. This donation helps provide 100,000 meals to people experiencing poverty in Vienna. Our employees donated part of their meal value at several of OMV’s cafeterias to support Wiener Tafel. Furthermore, 3 employees volunteered to participate in the food delivery rides, and 21 employees volunteered to prepare meals for underprivileged children in the cooking sessions. Lastly, we reduced CO2e emissions by 1 t in 2019 by supporting two CNG-fueled vehicles for food deliveries.
More details on these and other projects supporting SDGs and can be found at: www.omv.com/en/projects-initiatives. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 112


Impact snapshot: education, entrepreneurship, inclusion, and employment. 
Education, entrepreneurship, and employment are key factors in socio-economic development and positively contribute to numerous other SDGs. OMV has been involved in community and social investments focused on educa- tion, entrepreneurship, and employment for many years now. We invest in vocational training, micro-credits, scholarships, and supplier capacity building.
For the fifth year in a row, we continued the Vocational Romania project in Romania. The project is one of the most comprehensive projects promoting the development of vocational school students in the country. In August 2019, during one of the Vocational Summer Camps, 240 youth studying to be mechanics and electricians from 26 professional schools in the Argeș and Dâmbovița counties received professional training to be better prepared for joining the labor market. The best of the participating future craftsmen also received scholarships for the upcoming school year. Furthermore, the most innovative projects for vocational education development, submitted by the teachers taking part in the camp, were awarded grants so that the projects can be implemented in their schools. As part of our commitment to promoting vocational education in Romania, we also support the Oilmen’s School. In 2019, the second generation of well and park operators successfully graduated from the vocational school and 25 of them joined the OMV Petrom team. They joined 27 well operators who were employed from the first generation in 2018. OMV Petrom will continue to support the improvement of professional qualifications for two more generations of well operators. Lastly, the Vocational Students’ League continued to support young people in improving national policy on vocational education.
As part of the “RO SMART in Andrei’s Country” national competition in Romania, we funded eleven innovative initiatives furthering sustainable development in education, health, environment, and infrastructure in Romanian communities with a total grant budget of almost EUR 0.5 mn. One of the winning projects, “Education at Height,” provides students in the remote Hunedoara Mountains live lessons by qualified teachers from the exact locations featured in the lessons. Another winning project helps 10,000 pupils from 100 disadvantaged rural and urban areas to access digitized Junior Achievement Modules for Life Skills Devel- opment focused on cross-curricular entrepreneurial, financial, and vocational guidance.
1,404 people received education or support for improving their local employment opportunities in Austria, Romania, Tunisia, Yemen, Libya, Kazakhstan, and Serbia.
11 innovation initiatives for sustainable development were funded in Romania.
27 local suppliers received capacity building assistance in Yemen.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 113


In Tunisia, we continued investing in community and social projects focusing on entrepreneurship. In 2019, we launched a “TAHADDI” (Arabic for “challenge”) initiative offering dismissed workers a path to alternative employment or self-employment. TAHADDI has received 400 applications. A steering committee selected 80 beneficiaries to benefit from self-employment support, including entrepreneurship training, seed money, and post-business-creation coaching. 40 beneficiaries will also be selected for two pilot vocational training programs in scaffolding and domestic gas and appliances installation. In the Gabès area, OMV supported the creation of an innovative entrepreneurship lab at the Gabès Chemical Engineering School, the first and only engineering school offering higher education degrees up to doctorate level in chemical and process engineering in Tunisia. The lab will support environmental research and innovation, while also helping graduating chemical engineering students to mature their business ideas into executable business plans.
In Yemen, OMV aims to contribute to the long-term development of local communities by supporting education. 15 local students were able to attend universities due to OMV paying their tuition for the 2018/19 academic year. OMV scholarships allow students to study in various medical and engineering programs in accredited universities across Yemen. Partners in this program include the local authorities in the Shabwah Governorate and various universities.
In Romania, OMV Petrom continued to support entrepreneurship training for local communities. In 2019, we supported courses in sewing, weaving, and other Romanian traditional handicrafts for unemployed women. Other training topics included recycling and the production of handmade paper, hand weaving, reed processing, and woodworking. In addition, a hairdresser training program for socially disadvantaged people included entrepreneurship training and financial support for purchasing professional equipment and starting their own businesses. We also focused on developing young students’ skills in building successful business plans and provided early career advice for jobs in the field of traditional Romanian and other crafts. Lastly, our “Craftsmen 21” project aimed to identify local craftsmen and help them create goods with modern designs by using traditional techniques and materials. The project also provided assistance with promoting and selling their products. In total, 180 people in Romanian communities have benefited from the above trainings and programs for enhancing their entrepreneurial and career potential in 2019.
In Serbia, we continue to run a partnership with Caritas that provides work experience and mentoring to young adults from SOS Children’s Villages on their path to independence and employment. In 2019, two young persons conducted their tenmonth work placements at our filling stations. We also collaborate with Malteser International in Hungary, SOS Children’s Villages in Bulgaria and Serbia, and other organizations in Slovenia and Germany supporting the education and personal growth of children and young adults, particularly those from underprivileged communities.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 114


In Austria, we continued encouraging young women to pursue technical career fields. Sixty girls learned more about different career paths in technical professions while visiting OMV’s operations (Upstream, Head Office, and the Schwechat refinery) during the Girls’ Day initiative. Moreover, to advance social inclusion in Austria, we supported the fuelService application, which allows drivers with disabilities to find an appropriate filling station and helps them with refueling their vehicles.
More details on these and other projects supporting SDGs and can be found at: www.omv.com/en/projects-initiatives. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 115


Climate action. 
Impact snapshot: access to energy and energy efficiency. 
As the largest player on the Romanian energy market, OMV Petrom endorsed the “România Eficientă” program aiming to promote energy efficiency at the national level through public information campaigns, education programs, and financing of projects for improving the energy efficiency of public buildings. The program is run by the Energy Policy Group (EPG). OMV Petrom will contribute EUR 4 mn to this program in the period from 2019 to 2022.
In Romania, we also funded a public lighting efficiency initiative in four communities in Gorj county. The initiative replaced existing bulbs with 1,667 efficient and economical LED lamps, which increased the energy efficiency of public street lighting, improved the quality of public lighting, reduced electricity costs, and contributed to protecting the environment.
In terms of access to energy in New Zealand, we continued our collaboration with the WISE Better Homes initiative, funding insulation for 63 low-income family homes to improve their energy efficiency and reduce respiratory health issues. In Austria, Bulgaria, and Serbia, we provided donated fuel and heating vouchers to non-governmental organizations working with underprivileged people.
63 low-income households in New Zealand and 4 municipalities in Romania improved their energy efficiency, saving 69 t of CO2 equivalent.53 53 Estimated in 2019 only. 2019 activities will generate CO2e mitigation during an impact lifespan of the next 13 years (public lighting energy efficiency in Romania) and 30 years (WISE Better Homes).
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 116


Impact snapshot: Circular waste management. 
In Romania, we ran two projects in Constanța county, which borders the Black Sea. These aimed to address the issue of mismanaged waste. The “Recycling Laboratory” project developed informational materials and guidelines on the types of recyclable wastes generated by Romanian households, their recycling methods, and recycling locations in Constanța city. The project was implemented in partnership with the Oceanic-Club NGO, the Grigore Antipa National Museum of Natural History, the Constanța County School Inspectorate, and the Constanța Ovidius University. We reached 25,000 people to raise public awareness of recycling of domestic waste. The project also recognized ten business plans focusing on waste utilization developed by students in Constanța county. The #noplasticwaste project in Romania focused on raising public awareness among residents and tourists for more sustainable behavior, especially decreasing quantities of non-recycled plastic. The project developed an educational platform for sustainable development in educational institutions in Constanța county and ran a public waste collection and awareness-raising campaign. Project partners included the Mare Nostrum NGO, the Constanța County School Inspectorate, the Constanța Ovidius University, and the Dobrogea-Litoral Water Administration.
In New Zealand, Taranaki schools were rewarded for their recycling efforts with tree donations through our support of Paper4Trees. In 2019, we donated 1,308 trees to 119 schools to plant on their school grounds and in their local community. By avoiding the landfilling of paper waste, the project contributed to a reduction of 16 t CO2e54 in 2019.
In Norway, we started a partnership with the Clean Shores NGO. As part of this cooperation, we organized OMV volunteers to take part in beach clean-ups in Norway. The collected waste was then recycled in local recycling facilities. In 2019, 50 volunteers, including top management, took part.
25,000 people increased their awareness of circular waste management in Romania, and 2,060 kg of waste was collected in Norway.
54 Estimated in 2019 only. 2019 activities will generate CO2e mitigation during an impact lifespan of the next 10 years.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 117


Impact snapshot: Natural climate solutions. 
Natural climate solutions, i.e., conservation, restoration, and land management actions that increase carbon storage or avoid greenhouse gas emissions in landscapes and wetlands across the globe, are a key ingredient in addressing the challenges of climate change. In 2019, natural climate solutions also became a part of our social investment portfolio.
In 2019, we partnered with the Austrian Research Center for Forests (BFW) to support a research project, Climate-Research Forest, studying the role and adaptation of forests to climate change in Austria. Forest protection and restoration are key climate change mitigation measures due to the particular effectiveness of forests in absorbing CO2 from the atmosphere. However, with growing pressures on ecosystems, forests also need to adjust to changing conditions. BFW provided verification of the Climate-Research Forest on three plots of land in eastern Lower Austria near OMV operations. In the next stages of the project, BFW will cultivate, manage, and study the growing trees.
Research will be conducted on different types of forests consisting of native and non-native trees to examine their synergies and properties in the face of changing climate conditions. The project will also yield insights into the impact of reforestation on areas that most recently lacked tree stocks and encourage biodiversity. From 2021 onward, the Climate-Research Forest will be opened to the public for recreational purposes and will be supplemented with a nature trail inviting visitors to discover more about nature and the importance of woodlands.
In October 2019, 40 volunteers from OMV, including the OMV Group’s top management, planted the first trees for the Climate-Research Forest under the expert supervision of BFW. A total of around 750 trees were planted for the project on an area measuring 0.4 ha.
77,450 trees were planted by 885 OMV volunteers sequestering 213 t of CO255 in Austria, Romania, Serbia, and New Zealand.
55 Estimated in 2019 only. 2019 activities will generate CO2e mitigation during an impact lifespan of the next 20 years.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 118


Our employee volunteers have also been actively engaged in forestation efforts in Romania, Serbia, and New Zealand. In New Zealand, our local OMV team won a World Environment Day challenge, planting 380 trees in just two hours.
In Romania, we held two tree plantings involving 800 OMV Petrom and 2,100 public volunteers. As a result, 13.9 ha were reforested with trees. In Serbia, two forestation campaigns were organized in partnership with Serbia Forests (Srbijašume) and a total of 5,000 trees planted.
More details on these and other projects supporting SDGs and can be found at: www.omv.com/en/projects-initiatives. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / FOCUS AREAS 119


IN THIS CHAPTER. 
Value Creation and Distribution to Stakeholders 121. 
Safety Data 123. 
Environmental Data 125. 
Workforce Data 131. 
Performance in Detail


Value Creation and Distribution to Stakeholders. 
Revenues generated (in EUR mn) 2019 2018 2017. 
Net sales 23,461 22,930 20,222. 
Dividends, income from at-equity accounted investments and interest income 559 528 589. 
Other income 179 250 201. 
Gains from sale of assets 21 14 15. 
Total 24,220 23,722 21,028. 
Distribution to stakeholders. 
Stakeholders Category of distributed value 2019 (in EUR mn) 2019 (in %) 2018 (in EUR mn) 2018 (in %) 2017 (in EUR mn) 2017 (in %)
Suppliers Operating expenses (excl. royalties; incl. depreciation, impairment & write-up; FX result) 18,713 77.26% 18,547 78.18% 17,777 84.54%
Governments Taxes (income + royalties) 1,703 7.03% 1,399 5.90% 804 3.82%
Employees Employee wages and benefits 1,228 5.07% 1,108 4.67% 1,116 5.31%
Capital providers Interest expense and other financial result 303 1.25% 362 1.53% 326 1.55%
Shareholders (and hybrid capital holders)
Dividend distribution 858 3.54% 779 3.29% 668 3.18%
Society Social spending 28 0.11% 14 0.06% 11 0.05%
Total 22,832 94.27% 22,211 93.63% 20,702 93.63%
Value retained 1,388 5.73% 1,512 6.37% 326 1.55%
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 121


Significant financial assistance received from governments or governmental organizations in 2019. 
Company name EUR mn Details 2019. 
OMV Petrom S.A. 49.5 EUR 47.8 mn – cashed in part from the grant for Brazi plant EUR 1.7 mn – reduction of quota for green certificates. 
OMV Refining & Marketing GmbH 2.0 EUR 1.1 mn – research premium EUR 0.4 mn – grant for ReOil® project EUR 0.3 mn – subsidy for COHRS project EUR 0.2 mn – grant for WASTE2ROAD. 
OMV Exploration & Production GmbH 1.6 EUR 1.6 mn – research premium. 
OMV Austria Exploration & Production GmbH 0.5 EUR 0.5 mn – research premium. 
Significant monetary fines in 20191. 
Unit. 
Number of fines for non-compliance concerning provision and use of products number 0 thereof number of cases brought before court and resolved number 0. 
Monetary value of fines for non-compliance concerning provision and use of products in EUR 0. 
Number of fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations number 0 thereof number of cases brought before court and resolved number 0. 
Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations in EUR 0. 
Number of fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic areas number 0 thereof number of cases brought before court and resolved number 0. 
Monetary value of other fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic areas in EUR 0. 
Total number of fines number 0. 
Total number of cases brought before court number 0. 
Total monetary value of other fines for non-compliance in EUR 0 1 1 Only fines above EUR 10,000 and paid in 2019 are reported. Some minor fines (below the materiality threshold of EUR 10,000) related to environmental breaches, such as pollution in Romania, were reported in 2019. Fines for which OMV filed lawsuits in court that have not yet been settled are not reported.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 122


Safety Data. 
Occupational safety. 
Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015. 
Occupational safety, employees. 
Fatalities number 0 1 0 1 1. 
Fatality rate per 100 mn hours worked 0.00 2.85 0.00 2.46 2.20. 
Number of hours worked in hours (thousand) 34,987 35,080 37,188 40,665 45,656. 
Lost-Time Injury Rate (LTIR) per 1 mn hours worked 0.51 0.29 0.24 0.37 0.26. 
High-consequence work-related injuries1 number 2 1 0 1 n.r.
High-consequence work-related injuries1 per 1 mn hours worked 0.06 0.03 0.00 0.02 n.r.
Lost-time injury severity per 1 mn hours worked 38.61 9.86 9.95 16.92 15.20. 
Total recordable injuries2 number 44 31 27 27 27. 
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)2 per 1 mn hours worked 1.26 0.88 0.73 0.66 0.59. 
Occupational safety, contractors. 
Fatalities number 0 2 2 1 1. 
Fatality rate per 100 mn hours worked 0.00 2.47 2.52 1.10 1.03. 
Number of hours worked in hours (thousand) 78,773 81,059 79,458 90,793 97,265. 
Lost-Time Injury Rate (LTIR) per 1 mn hours worked 0.27 0.31 0.39 0.42 0.28. 
High-consequence work-related injuries1 number 1 3 3 3 n.r.
High-consequence work-related injuries1 per 1 mn hours worked 0.01 0.04 0.04 0.03 n.r.
Lost-time injury severity per 1 mn hours worked 8.80 20.73 19.37 21.60 12.95. 
Total recordable injuries2 number 64 60 65 65 76. 
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)2 per 1 mn hours worked 0.81 0.74 0.82 0.72 0.79. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 123


Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015. 
Occupational safety, employees and contractors. 
Fatalities number 0 3 2 2 2. 
Fatality rate per 100 mn hours worked 0.00 2.58 1.71 1.52 1.40. 
Number of hours worked in hours (thousand) 113,759 116,139 116,645 131,458 142,921. 
Lost-Time Injury Rate (LTIR) per 1 mn hours worked 0.34 0.30 0.34 0.40 0.27. 
High-consequence work-related injuries1 number 3 4 3 4 n.r.
High-consequence work-related injuries1 per 1 mn hours worked 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 n.r.
Lost-time injury severity per 1 mn hours worked 17.97 17.44 16.37 20.15 13.61. 
Total recordable injuries2 number 108 91 92 92 103. 
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)2 per 1 mn hours worked 0.95 0.78 0.79 0.70 0.73 1 Lost-time injuries that resulted in 180 (or more) lost-workdays or permanent total disabilities.
2 Corresponds to (GRI 403:2018-a-iii: Recordable work-related injuries) n.r. = not reported. 
Process safety. 
Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015. 
Tier 1 number 4 4 4 9 2. 
Tier 2 number 7 12 6 16 12. 
Process Safety Event Rate1 per 1 mn hours worked 0.10 0.14 0.09 0.19 0.10 1 Process Safety Event Rate is related to Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety events. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 124


Environmental Data. 
Energy. 
Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015. 
Energy. 
Energy consumption1 PJ 117.4 127.4 130.8 126.8 137.8. 
Fuel consumption within the organization PJ 142.42 152.52 157.5 143.8 n.r.
Electricity consumption2 PJ 2.9 3.5 2.9 4.3 n.r.
Heating, cooling and steam consumption TJ 95 96 14.8 32.3 n.r.
Electricity sold3 PJ 12.7 25.1 26.2 19.4 n.r.
Heating, cooling and steam sold PJ 2.9 2.7 3.3 3.2 n.r.
1 Refers to the total energy used for operations based on site calculations with specific data and methodology.
2 Includes only electricity purchased and consumed. Electricity consumed from own generation is included in fuel consumption.
3 Decrease as Samsun is out of scope in 2019 n.r. = not reported. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 125


Emissions. 
Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015. 
GHG Emissions. 
GHG (direct, Scope 1)1 mn t CO2 equivalent 10.6 11.1 11.1 11.0 12.2 of which from Upstream activities mn t CO2 equivalent 4.2 3.6 3.5 4.0 4.7 of which from Downstream activities mn t CO2 equivalent 6.4 7.6 7.7 7.0 7.2. 
CO2 mn t 9.4 10.0 10.2 9.7 10.4. 
CH4 t 49,376 44,782 38,807 54,753 70,741. 
N2O t 74 57 52 60 72. 
GHG (indirect, Scope 2) mn t CO2 equivalent 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.4. 
GHG (indirect, Scope 3)2 mn t CO2 equivalent 126 108 108 113 112. 
GHG reductions from projects t CO2 equivalent 154,522 374,000 174,000 82,000 266,000. 
GHG reductions from projects to date (from 2009) mn t CO2 equivalent 1.8 1.7 1.2. 
Other air emissions. 
SO2 t 2,627 3,090 2,995 3,105 2,918. 
NOX t 7,441 11,231 12,730 12,050 12,951. 
NM-VOC t 11,011 9,400 8,689 10,229 11,585. 
Particulate emissions t 124 138 145 139 155. 
Ozone-depleting substances t 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.5 0.4 1 Since 2016 OMV is applying global warming potentials of the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4 – 100 year); 2015 GHG emissions have been re-calculated accordingly.
2 Includes Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold processed products. These include total sales amounts from companies, which are under operational or financial control by OMV; pure “trading margin” sales as well as intercompany sales are excluded. Since 2015 Scope 3 emissions from purchased goods & services and capital goods are included. From 2018 on net import of refinery feedstock is included.
Flaring and venting. 
Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015. 
Flaring and Venting. 
Hydrocarbons flared1 t 337,512 233,770 185,832 180,452 299,825. 
Hydrocarbons vented t 34,282 37,420 32,834 50,173 61,443 1 Increase of flaring amounts due to production increase in Yemen and planned unit shutdowns at the Burghausen refinery. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 126


GHG intensity of OMV operations1 2019 20182 2010. 
GHG intensity of operations OMV Group Carbon Intensity Index 78 86 100. 
Reduction achieved vs. 2010 % 22 14 1 CO2 equivalent emissions produced to generate a certain business output using the following business-specific metric (Upstream: t CO2 equivalent/toe produced, refineries: t CO2 equivalent/t throughput, power: t CO2 equivalent/MWh produced) consolidated into an OMV Group Carbon Intensity Operations Index, based on weighted average of the business segments’ carbon intensity 2 2018 data restated.
GHG intensity of OMV product portfolio1 (Scope 3)
Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015. 
Oil to energy mn t CO2 equivalent 68.2 58.2 73.8 85.5 83.4. 
Oil for non-energy use1 mn t CO2 equivalent 7.7 6.2 6.6 5.1 5.3. 
Gas to energy1, 2 mn t CO2 equivalent 41.8 34.4 25.9 20.3 21.2. 
Gas for non-energy use mn t CO2 equivalent 2.0 1.5 0.9 0.7 0.6. 
Chemicals mn t CO2 equivalent 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01. 
Total GHG (indirect, Scope 3) mn t CO2 equivalent 119.8 100.4 107.2 111.5 110.5. 
GHG intensity of product portfolio mn t GHG per mn t oil equivalent 2.5 2.5 2.6 2.7 2.7 1 Increase in Upstream direct sales and related GHG emissions from 2016 to 2017 due to corrected application of boundaries 2 Increase in 2018 mainly due to increased gas sale volumes in Russia. 
GHG intensity of OMV purchased goods & services and capital goods (Scope 3)
Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015. 
Purchased goods and services1 mn t CO2 equivalent 6.1 5.7 1.1 1.1 1.3. 
Capital goods mn t CO2 equivalent 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.2. 
Total GHG (indirect, Scope 3)1 mn t CO2 equivalent 6.3 7.2 1.3 1.2 1.5. 
GHG intensity1 mn t GHG per bn $ 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.6 1 Increase in 2018 due to inclusion of net import of refinery feedstock (crude and intermediates)
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 127


Biogenic CO2 emissions. 
Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016. 
Biogenic CO2 emissions t CO2 equivalent 1,527,113 1,303,703 1,243,810 1,225,865. 
Water. 
Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015. 
Water. 
Water withdrawn1 megaliters 103,637 100,381 98,523 99,592 102,114 thereof groundwater megaliters 24,117 23,964 24,530 23,915 24,016 thereof freshwater (≤1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 23,836 23,716 24,144 23,614 23,828 thereof other water (>1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 281 247 386 301 188 thereof surface water megaliters 14,054 14,955 11,526 12,370 12,757 thereof freshwater (≤1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 14,054 14,955 11,526 12,370 12,757 thereof other water (>1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 0 0 0 0 0 thereof water from public supply systems megaliters 1,360 1,477 1,509 1,606 1,807 thereof freshwater (≤1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 1,360 1,477 1,509 1,606 1,807 thereof other water (>1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 0 0 0 0 0 thereof seawater2 megaliters 920 586 577 382 396 thereof produced water3 megaliters 63,186 59,400 60,382 61,319 63,137. 
Water withdrawn (other than total water withdrawal by source)4 megaliters 920 280,963 411,854 397,860 466,137. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 128


Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015. 
Water withdrawn from all areas with water stress5 megaliters 1,230 1,775 2,524 2,367 2,300 thereof groundwater megaliters 399 645 1,144 1,119 1,255 thereof freshwater (≤1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 118 398 758 819 1,067 thereof other water (>1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 281 247 386 301 188 thereof surface water megaliters 0 0 0 0 0 thereof freshwater (≤1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 0 0 0 0 0 thereof other water (>1,000 mg/L mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 0 0 0 0 0 thereof water from public supply systems megaliters 67 82 84 86 70 thereof freshwater (≤1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 67 82 84 86 70 thereof other water (>1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids) megaliters 0 0 0 0 0 thereof seawater megaliters 0 0 0 0 0 thereof produced water megaliters 764 1,048 1,297 1,162 975. 
Water consumed6 megaliters 74,924 75,135 76,152 78,103 80,731. 
Water consumed in all areas with water stress5 megaliters 1,158 1,691 2,428 2,267 2,086. 
Water recycled and reused7 megaliters 251,959 7,041 6,859 6,733 6,675. 
Wastewater discharged. 
Wastewater megaliters 21,298 21,913 19,306 19,580 19,568. 
Chemical Oxygen Demand t 948 1,374 936 853 824. 
Hydrocarbons t 7 9 15 15 18. 
Total nitrogen t 100 114 104 91 80 1 Excluding water withdrawn for once-through-use (reported separately) 2 Due to increase in OMV New Zealand’s offshore installations 3 Produced water amount increased mainly due to new Malaysia installation and new acquisition in New Zealand.
4 Volume of water used for once-through cooling returned unchanged (excluding thermal effects) to water source as well as groundwater extracted solely for remediation or to control the migration of contaminated groundwater (IPIECA 2010); decrease due to divestment of Samsun CCPP, which is out of scope in 2019 5 Decrease as Pakestan is out of scope in 2019.
6 Excluding water withdrawn for once-through use (reported separately). Water storage does not have a significant impact.
7 Due to the Brazi power plant, which applies continuous electrodeionization (“CEDI”) to recycle the process water for use as water for steam production and cooling water. The Brazi power plant recycles 98% of the total amount of withdrawn water (used more than once), which amounted to approx. 260 million mn m3 in 2018 and approx. 250 million mn m3 in 2017. The respective amounts for 2018 and 2017 were not recorded into the Monitor.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 129


Waste1. 
Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015. 
Waste1. 
Total waste t 633,722 583,831 460,247 923,709 832,017 thereof non-hazardous waste t 323,268 315,219 224,008 662,153 493,285 thereof hazardous waste2 t 310,453 268,611 236,239 261,556 338,731. 
Transboundary movement of hazardous waste (Basel convention) t 20 0 0 0 0. 
Waste recovered or recycled3 t 325,198 223,474 202,161 533,040 288,036. 
Waste recovery or recycling rate % 51% 38% 44% 58% 35%
Waste safely disposed of t 308,523 360,357 258,086 390,669 543,980 1 Total waste amounts including those from one-time projects 2 Increase due to maintenance activities in Brazi plant 3 Increase due to a bigger amount of contaminated soil being bio-remediated in OMV Petrom’s Asset IV. 
Spills. 
Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015. 
Spills. 
Spills number 2,047 2,184 2,403 2,138 2,333 of which major (i.e. severity level 3 to 5) number 1 2 1 2 6 of which minor (i.e. severity level below 3) number 2,046 2,182 2,402 2,136 2,327. 
Spills volume liters 56,641 36,874 173,909 103,490 158,000. 
Environmental expenditures. 
Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015. 
Environmental expenditures. 
Environmental protection expenditures, excluding depreciation mn EUR 220 196 197 208 210. 
Environmental investments for assets put into operation mn EUR 98 134 57 105 104. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 130


Workforce Data. 
Total headcount by employment type and region. 
Employees Austria. 
Romania/
Rest of Europe. 
Middle East/
Africa. 
Rest of the World Total 2019 Total 2018 Total 2017 Total 2016 Total 2015. 
Total 3,965 14,219 686 975 19,845 20,231 20,721 22,544 24,124. 
Status. 
White-collar workers 3,155 7,410 600 744 11,909 11,757 11,832 12,717 13,500. 
Blue-collar workers 810 6,809 86 231 7,936 8,372 8,780 9,707 10,504. 
Apprentices 96 0 0 0 96 102 109 120 120. 
Employment type. 
Full-time 3,660 14,141 669 961 19,431 19,824 20,211 22,045 23,888 thereof male 2,829 10,413 574 726 14,542 14,874 15,279 n/a n/a thereof female 831 3,728 95 235 4,889 4,950 4,932 n/a n/a. 
Part-time1 305 78 17 14 414 407 510 499 236 thereof male 65 40 11 3 119 147 247 n/a n/a thereof female 240 38 6 11 295 260 263 n/a n/a. 
Gender. 
Male 2,894 10,453 585 729 14,661 15,021 15,526 16,976 18,270. 
Female 1,071 3,766 101 246 5,184 5,210 5,195 5,568 5,854. 
Employment type. 
Temporary2 49 60 29 87 225 171 150 302 422 thereof male 26 29 26 71 152 111 86 n/a n/a thereof female 23 31 3 16 73 60 64 n/a n/a. 
Permanent 3,965 14,219 686 975 19,845 20,231 20,721 22,544 24,124 thereof male 2,894 10,453 585 729 14,661 15,021 15,526 16,976 18,270 thereof female 1,071 3,766 101 246 5,184 5,210 5,195 5,568 5,854 1 At OMV Petrom, employees have the option to reduce the daily working time to raise a child up to the age of two or three years. These employees are reported as full-time.
2 A temporary contract of employment is of limited duration and terminated by a specific event, such as the end of a project or work phase, the return of replaced personnel, etc.; not included in total number of employees, only shown separately. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 131


Additional information1 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015. 
Percentage of employees who have the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining 98.86% 98.49% 98.17% 98.71% 97.51%
Percentage of employees represented by local trade unions or works council 89.62% 88.57% 86.69% 83.62% 81.92%
Percentage of employees for whom minimum wages or salaries were fixed by law or agreed upon by way of collective bargaining 98.81% 99.57% 97.04% 97.85% 99.07%
Percentage of employees covered by mandatory periods of notice under employment law or collective bargaining agreements for cases of restructuring 98.86% 97.82% 96.45% 96.87% 97.19% 1 Excluding Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH, DUNATÀR Köolajtermék Tároló és Kereskedelmi Kft., and SapuraOMV Upstream Sdn. Bhd.
Details on new recruitments by region, gender, and age. 
Age <30 30–50 >50 Total 2019 Total 2018 Total 2017 Total 2016 Total 2015. 
Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. %
Austria1. 
Male 74 13.68% 235 43.44% 31 5.73% 340 62.85% 223 67.08% 127 72.99% 63 72.41% 72 70.59%
Female 64 11.83% 128 23.66% 9 2% 201 37.15% 87 28.07% 47 27.01% 24 27.59% 30 29.41%
Total 138 25.51% 363 67.10% 40 7.39% 541 100.00% 310 100.00% 174 100.00% 87 100.00% 102 100.00%
Romania/Rest of Europe1. 
Male 107 25.42% 138 32.78% 24 5.70% 269 63.90% 341 55.99% 281 58.54% 155 55.56% 456 66.67%
Female 58 13.78% 87 20.67% 7 1.66% 152 36.10% 268 44.01% 199 41.46% 124 44.44% 228 33.33%
Total 165 39.19% 225 53.44% 31 7.36% 421 100.00% 609 100.00% 480 100.00% 279 100.00% 684 100.00%
Middle East/Africa. 
Male 1 2.38% 19 45.24% 13 30.95% 33 78.57% 50 87.72% 71 86.59% 114 66.67% 76 73.08%
Female 2 4.76% 6 14.29% 1 2.38% 9 21.43% 7 12.28% 11 13.41% 57 33.33% 28 26.92%
Total 3 7.14% 25 59.52% 14 33.33% 42 100.00% 57 100.00% 82 100.00% 171 100.00% 104 100.00%
Rest of the World. 
Male 7 9.86% 42 59.15% 2 2.82% 51 71.83% 44 68.75% 54 61.36% 16 64.00% 18 60.00%
Female 7 9.86% 12 16.90% 1 1.41% 20 28.17% 20 31.25% 34 38.64% 9 36.00% 12 40.00%
Total 14 19.72% 54 76.06% 3 4.23% 71 100.00% 64 100.00% 88 100.00% 25 100.00% 30 100.00%
Total 320 667 88 1,075 1,040 824 824 824 1 Excluding Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH, DUNATÀR Köolajtermék Tároló és Kereskedelmi Kft., and SapuraOMV Upstream Sdn. Bhd.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 132


Details on contract terminations by region, gender, and age. 
Age <30 30–50 >50 Total 2019 Total 2018 Total 2017 Total 2016 Total 2015. 
Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. %
Austria1. 
Male 14 6.67% 83 39.52% 72 34.29% 169 80.48% 115 73.71% 129 72.88% 169 78.60% 131 79.88%
Female 7 3.33% 24 11.43% 10 4.76% 41 19.52% 41 26.29% 48 27.12% 46 21.40% 33 20.12%
Total 21 10.00% 107 50.95% 82 39.05% 210 100.00% 156 100.00% 177 100.00% 215 100.00% 164 100.00%
Romania/Rest of Europe1. 
Male 48 3.34% 398 27.68% 566 39.36% 1,012 70.38% 803 70.56% 1,048 71.98% 1,222 75.29% 1,339 81.60%
Female 40 2.78% 175 12.17% 211 14.67% 426 29.62% 335 29.44% 408 28.02% 401 24.71% 302 18.40%
Total 88 6.12% 573 39.85% 777 54.03% 1,438 100.00% 1,138 100.00% 1,456 100.00% 1,623 100.00% 1,641 100.00%
Middle East/Africa. 
Male 0 0.00% 30 62.50% 10 20.83% 40 83.33% 443 95.06% 33 89.19% 231 80.21% 250 80.65%
Female 0 0.00% 8 16.67% 0 0.00% 8 16.67% 23 4.94% 4 10.81% 57 19.79% 60 19.35%
Total 0 0.00% 38 79.17% 10 20.83% 48 100.00% 466 100.00% 37 100.00% 288 100.00% 310 100.00%
Rest of the World. 
Male 4 4.94% 35 43.21% 20 24.69% 59 72.84% 33 80.49% 43 61.43% 76 75.25% 33 63.46%
Female 3 3.70% 13 16.05% 6 7.41% 22 27.16% 8 19.51% 27 38.57% 25 24.75% 19 36.54%
Total 7 8.64% 48 59.26% 26 32.10% 81 100.00% 41 100.00% 70 100.00% 101 100.00% 52 100.00%
Total 116 766 895 1,777 1,801 1,740 2,227 2,167 1 Excluding Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH, DUNATÀR Köolajtermék Tároló és Kereskedelmi Kft., and SapuraOMV Upstream Sdn. Bhd.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 133


Fluctuation rate by region and gender. 
Fluctuation rate1 Austria2. 
Romania/Rest of Europe Middle East/Africa Rest of the World Total 2019 Total 2018 Total 2017. 
Fluctuation rate – male 6.22% 9.05% 6.77% 11.20% 8.52% 8.98% 7.86%
Fluctuation rate – female 4.49% 10.52% 8.60% 14.10% 9.54% 7.83% 9.26%
Total 5.78% 9.44% 7.02% 11.86% 8.78% 8.69% 8.21% <30 0.58% 0.58% 0.00% 1.02% 0.57% 0.78% n.r.
30–50 2.95% 3.76% 5.56% 7.03% 3.79% 4.18% n.r.
>50 2.26% 5.10% 1.46% 3.81% 4.42% 3.74% n.r.
1 Including all exits in reporting period 2019 compared to headcount of December 31, 2018 2 Excluding Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH, DUNATÀR Köolajtermék Tároló és Kereskedelmi Kft., and SapuraOMV Upstream Sdn. Bhd.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 134


Average hours of training and education by region and position (incl. costs)1,2 20193 2018 2017 2016 2015. 
Board & Executives Senior management. 
Average training hours for Board & Executives 19 Average training hour for senior management 33 33 n.r. n.r.
Advanced level Management. 
Average training hours for advanced level 25 Average training hours for management 26 23 n.r. n.r.
Core level Experts. 
Average training hours for core level 25 Average training hours for experts 15 19 n.r. n.r.
Primary level Project managers. 
Average training hours for primary level 24 Average training hour for project managers 27 18 n.r. n.r.
Entry level Administrators. 
Average training hours for entry level 21 Average training hours for administrators 9 11 n.r. n.r.
Technicians Technicians. 
Average training hours for technicians 19 Average training hours for technicians 28 36 n.r. n.r.
Grand Total. 
Average training hours for all employees4 21 22 21 13 14. 
Average training hours for female employees4 18 17 14 n.r. n.r.
Average training hours for male employees4 22 24 23 n.r. n.r.
Total training hours for female employees 89,658 85,287 70,053 n.r. n.r.
Total training hours for male employees 314,564 351,946 356,642 n.r. n.r.
Total training hours for all employees 404,222 437,233 426,695 286,364 340,737. 
Money spent on training 8,271,226 7,068,641 4,906,900 5,276,500 7,910,720. 
Number of participants in trainings 16,322 14,618 15,336 12,626 11,188 1 Excluding Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH, DUNATÀR Köolajtermék Tároló és Kereskedelmi Kft., and SapuraOMV Upstream Sdn. Bhd.
2 Excluding conferences and trainings for external employees 3 Employee categories changed in 2019. Numbers up to 2018 are not comparable.
4 Data restatement: In 2017, the grand total of average training hours for all employees, female employees, and male employees were reported in relation to participants and not to number of employees.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 135


Diversity in 2019 (headcount as per December 31, 2019)
Gender Age1 Nationality1. 
Women Men <30 30–50 >50 AT. 
Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Abs. % Total. 
Supervisory Board 4 40.00% 6 60.00% 0 0.00% 5 50.00% 5 50.00% 8 80.00% 10. 
Executive Board 0 0.00% 4 100.00% 0 0.00% 1 25.00% 3 75.00% 3 75.00% 4. 
Executives & Advanced Level2 89 19.60% 365 80.40% 1 0.22% 295 64.98% 158 34.80% 239 52.64% 454. 
Non-AT/Non-RO³
Diversity in general 5,184 26.12% 14,661 73.88% 1,211 6.31% 10,926 56.90% 7,065 36.79% 3,245 16.90% 19,845. 
Austria 1,071 27.01% 2,894 72.99% 571 15.62% 2,251 61.59% 833 22.79% 703 19.23% 3,965. 
Romania 3,300 25.67% 9,554 74.33% 405 3.15% 5,628 43.78% 6,821 53.07% 54 0.42% 12,854 1 Excluding Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH, DUNATÀR Köolajtermék Tároló és Kereskedelmi Kft., and SapuraOMV Upstream Sdn. Bhd.
2 Executives & advanced level according to OMV Grading & Career Framework 2.0 3 Non-Austrians in Austria, non-Romanians in Romania. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 136


Diversity by age and employee category1 (%) <30 30–50 >50 % % %
Board. 
Male 0.00% 25.00% 75.00%
Female 0.00% 0.00% 0.00%
Total 0.00% 25.00% 75.00%
Executives. 
Male 0.00% 34.29% 45.71%
Female 0.00% 14.29% 5.71%
Total 0.00% 48.57% 51.43%
Advanced level. 
Male 0.00% 50.84% 29.59%
Female 0.24% 15.99% 3.34%
Total 0.24% 66.83% 32.94%
Core level. 
Male 0.49% 47.93% 22.58%
Female 0.41% 23.60% 4.00%
Total 0.89% 71.53% 27.58%
Primary level. 
Male 3.81% 34.00% 20.58%
Female 4.01% 27.54% 10.07%
Total 7.81% 61.54% 30.65%
Entry level. 
Male 7.75% 18.70% 19.94%
Female 6.27% 25.74% 21.60%
Total 14.02% 44.44% 41.54%
Technicians. 
Male 4.12% 51.76% 35.76%
Female 0.39% 3.34% 4.64%
Total 4.51% 55.09% 40.39% 1 Excluding Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH, DUNATÀR Köolajtermék Tároló és Kereskedelmi Kft., and SapuraOMV Upstream Sdn. Bhd.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 137


Parental leave. 
Employees 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015. 
Entitled employees as per 31.12.2019. 
Male 14,180 14,489 14,509 15,909 17,090. 
Female 5,022 5,122 4,936 5,446 5,698. 
Took parental leave during 2019. 
Male 68 111 112 135 112. 
Female 201 136 344 317 312. 
Returned from parental leave during 2019. 
Male 56 114 87 n/a n/a. 
Female 90 179 138 n/a n/a. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 138


Percentage of local employees1,2 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015. 
Austria. 
Austria 80.8% 84.5% 86.2% 87.6% 87.6%
Romania/Rest of Europe. 
Romania 99.6% 99.5% 99.4% 99.3% 98.9%
Belgium 100.0% n/a n/a n/a n/a. 
Bulgaria 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Czech Republic 95.3% 94.9% 94.9% 94.9% 94.3%
Germany 89.4% 89.6% 88.2% 90.0% 90.3%
Hungary 100.0% 100.0% 94.3% 100.0% 100.0%
Netherlands 77.8% 100.0% 100.0% n/a n/a. 
Norway 82.0% 87.2% 85.0% 86.7% 82.9%
Republic of Moldova 94.9% 98.4% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Russia 96.8% 96.7% 93.8% n/a n/a. 
Serbia 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Slovakia 82.1% 80.0% 96.5% 76.1% 72.9%
Slovenia 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Switzerland 1.9% 1.8% 2.9% 1.8% 1.1%
Turkey 100.0% 100.0% 98.9% 100.0% 100.0%
United Kingdom 69.4% 61.1% 56.3% 69.4% 72.6%
Middle East/Africa. 
Abu Dhabi 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 100.0% 0.0%
Libya 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Pakistan -0.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Tunisia 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Yemen 99.7% 99.7% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Rest of the World. 
Kazakhstan 97.5% 97.3% 100.0% 100.0% 84.4%
Madagascar -100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Malaysia --
New Zealand 77.4% 77.0% 66.7% 100.0% 62.8% 1 According to legal entity and nationality 2 Excluding Gas Connect Austria GmbH, Avanti GmbH, DUNATÀR Köolajtermék Tároló és Kereskedelmi Kft., and SapuraOMV Upstream Sdn. Bhd.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 139


Percentage of female employees1 2019 2018 2017 2016. 
Austria. 
Austria 27.0% 25.5% 25.3% 24.8%
Romania/Rest of Europe. 
Romania 25.7% 25.9% 25.5% 25.2%
Belgium 0.0% --
Bulgaria 54.5% 48.1% 49.1% 46.3%
Czech Republic 46.5% 46.1% 35.9% 35.9%
Germany 14.7% 14.4% 13.5% 14.3%
Hungary 35.3% 45.8% 44.8% 42.1%
Netherlands 22.2% 16.7% 0.0% n/a. 
Norway 31.9% 35.9% 36.3% 40.0%
Republic of Moldova 47.5% 47.6% 50.9% 53.4%
Russia 58.1% 56.7% 56.3% n/a. 
Serbia 62.8% 61.9% 61.9% 55.0%
Slovakia 73.0% 73.6% 74.3% 74.4%
Slovenia 58.9% 60.3% 61.3% 60.8%
Switzerland 8.7% 10.1% 10.1% 8.9%
Turkey 32.7% 34.7% 22.8% 20.4%
United Kingdom 27.8% 27.8% 31.3% 23.5%
Middle East/Africa. 
Abu Dhabi 50.0% 25.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Libya 20.0% 17.2% 15.4% 14.3%
Pakistan -4.3% 3.6%
Tunisia 19.2% 18.6% 20.9% 22.8%
Yemen 7.9% 7.6% 7.3% 9.4%
Rest of the World. 
Kazakhstan 22.5% 22.3% 22.3% 21.4%
Madagascar -33.3% 33.3% 33.3%
Malaysia 30.6% --
New Zealand 22.9% 23.3% 32.1% 33.3% 1 According to legal entity. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 140


Vienna, March 24, 2020 The Executive Board. 
Rainer Seele m.p. Reinhard Florey m.p.
Johann Pleininger m.p. Thomas Gangl m.p.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / OUR PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL 141


IN THIS CHAPTER. 
GRI Content Index 143. 
TCFD Recommendations Index 156. 
Stakeholders’ Engagement Details 158. 
Memberships 160. 
Abbreviations 162. 
Definitions 165. 
Contacts and imprint 167. 
Assurance statement 168. 
Reporting Annexes


GRI Content Index. 
Universal standards. 
GRI 101: Foundation 2016 no disclosures. 
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016. 
Organizational profile. 
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC 102-1 Name of the organization About this Report 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Our value chain OMV at a Glance 102-3 Location of headquarters About this Report Contacts and Imprint 102-4 Location of operations Upstream business segment Downstream business segment 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report: OMV on the Capital Markets 102-6 Markets served Our value chain Upstream business segment Downstream business segment 102-7 Scale of the organization Economic Performance Upstream business segment Downstream business segment Value creation and distribution to shareholders Workforce data Our value chain Annual Report: OMV Group Business Year 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Workforce data Annual Report: Employees A substantial part of our work is performed by contractors.
6 102-9 Supply chain Our value chain Supply chain Supplier sustainability compliance Local procurement and suppliers engagement Value creation and distribution to stakeholders 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain. 
Our value chain Upstream business segment Downstream business segment Local procurement and suppliers engagement Economic Performance 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Sustainability strategy Sustainability governance Risks and Opportunities Management Health, safety, security, and environment Process safety management Management of environmental compliance Spills management Water management Focus on product responsibility. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 143


Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC 102-12 External initiatives About this Report Our commitment to international sustainable development standards Health management Occupational safety management Environmental management Water management Carbon Efficiency Climate-related business resilience Carbon efficiency of operations Focus on product responsibility Employees Business principles and anti-corruption OMV compliance management system Human rights Human rights management Supplier sustainability compliance Community relations and development 102-13 Membership of associations Memberships. 
Strategy. 
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Statement Report of the Supervisory Board 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Mapping our sustainability risks Enterprise-Wide Risk Management Management of environmental compliance Climate-related risks and opportunities Annual Report: Risk Management. 
Ethics and integrity. 
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Our foundation Sustainability strategy Business principles and anti-corruption management Preventing corruption risk in operations 10 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Communication with stakeholders 10. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 144


Governance. 
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC 102-18 Governance structure Sustainability governance 102-19 Delegating authority Sustainability governance 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics. 
Sustainability governance CEO Statement 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics. 
Stakeholders’ engagement details Sustainability governance 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees. 
Annual Report: Supervisory Board 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Annual Report: Supervisory Board 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body. 
Annual Report: Supervisory Board 102-25 Conflicts of interest Annual Report: Supervisory Board 102-26 Role of highest gove rnance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy. 
Sustainability governance 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Sustainability governance 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body´s performance. 
Sustainability governance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts. 
Sustainability governance Environmental, social, and governance ratings and indices Stakeholders’ engagement details 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Sustainability governance Mapping our sustainability risks Enterprise-Wide Risk Management Annual Report: Risk Management 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Sustainability governance Annual Report: OMV’s Approach to Sustainability 102-32 Highest governance body´s role in sustainability reporting. 
Sustainability governance 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Sustainability governance 102-35 Remuneration policies Sustainability governance Annual Report: Consolidated Corporate Governance Report 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Sustainability governance Annual Report: Consolidated Corporate Governance Report. 
Stakeholder engagement. 
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder map Stakeholders’ engagement details 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Management of employment and skill development Workforce data 3
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Reporting on materiality Materiality Identification Process 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholders’ engagement details 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholders’ engagement details. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 145


Reporting practice. 
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements. 
Annual Report: Direct and indirect investments of OMV Aktiengesellschaft 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About this Report GRI Content Index 102-47 List of material topics Reporting on materiality 102-48 Restatements of information All changes relative to previous years’ reported data or information have been indicated where relevant, with appropriate explanations provided.
102-49 Changes in reporting Reporting on materiality Diversity has been added as material topic in 2019.
102-50 Reporting period About this Report 102-51 Date of most recent report 2019, About this Report.
102-52 Reporting cycle annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contacts and Imprint 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards. 
About this Report 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index 102-56 External assurance Assurance statement About this Report. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 146


Material Topics and Other Topics. 
GRI 200 Economic Standard Series. 
Supply Chain (Procurement Practices)
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Supplier sustainability compliance Local procurement and suppliers engagement 103-2 The management approach and its components Supply chain Supplier sustainability compliance, Local procurement and suppliers engagement Role of digitalization in supplier management 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Supply chain Supplier sustainability compliance, Local procurement and suppliers engagement Role of digitalization in supplier management. 
OG1 Sector Supplement. 
Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production Our value chain. 
GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Local procurement and suppliers engagement 204-1-b: Local suppliers are defined as national suppliers, active in the countries where OMV has operations; 204-1-c: Significant locations of operation are all the locations where OMV is the main operator. We disclose local spend for our two biggest countries of operation, Austria and Romania.
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. 
Supplier sustainability compliance Existing suppliers were screened regarding ESG and sustainability topics. The supplier onboarding process of OMV will be adapted and expanded by a screening using environemental criteria. Percentage of new suppliers will be reported in the following periods.
8 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. 
Supplier sustainability compliance 8. 
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Supplier sustainability compliance Existing suppliers were screened regarding ESG and sustainability topics. The supplier onboarding process of OMV will be adapted and expanded by a screening using social criteria. Percentage of new suppliers will be reported in the following periods.
2 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. 
Supplier sustainability compliance 2. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 147


Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption (Anti-Corruption)
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Business principles and anti-corruption Business principles and anti-corruption management 10 103-2 The management approach and its components Business principles and anti-corruption Business principles and anti-corruption management 10 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Business principles and anti-corruption management 10. 
GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Business principles and anti-corruption management Preventing corruption risk in operations All operations are assessed annually for risks related to corruption and no risks were identified.
10 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures. 
Preventing corruption risk in operations Communication with stakeholders Only total number of trained employees reported, as this is considered material. Breakdown per reigion and employee categories and communication to business partners omitted.
10 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Preventing corruption risk in operations 10. 
GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices. 
Preventing corruption risk in operations 10. 
Innovation. 
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Innovation management 9 103-2 The management approach and its components Innovation management 9 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Innovation in drilling, production and reserves 9. 
OG3 Sector Supplement. 
R&D expenses (including on low-carbon technologies) Innovation management 9. 
GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series. 
Energy Efficiency (Energy)
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Energy efficiency 7, 8, 9 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental management Management of environmental compliance Energy efficiency 7, 8, 9 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental management Management of environmental compliance Energy efficiency Environmental data 7, 8, 9. 
GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy efficiency Environmental data 7, 8 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy efficiency Environmental data 8, 9. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 148


Water Management (Water)
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Water management 7, 8 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental management Water management 7, 8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental management Water management Environmental data 7, 8. 
GRI 303: Water 2018 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water management 7, 8 303-2 Management of water-discharge-related impacts Water management 8 303-3 Water withdrawal Environmental data 8 303-4 Water discharge Environmental data Only total water discharged and chemical oxygen demand reported.
8 303-5 Water consumption Environmental data 8. 
OG5 Sector Supplement. 
Volume and disposal of formation or produced water Water management Environmental data 8. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 149


Emissions from Operations (Emissions)
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Carbon Efficiency Climate-related risks and opportunities Carbon efficiency of operations Carbon efficiency of the product portfolio 7, 8, 9 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental management Climate related-risks and opportunities Management of carbon efficiency of operations Management of carbon efficiency of the product portfolio GHG emissions reduction in operations Indirect GHG emissions from electricity and heat 7, 8, 9 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental management Climate related-risks and opportunities Climate-related business resilience and the energy transition GHG emissions reduction in operations Management of carbon efficiency of the product portfolio Environmental data 7, 8, 9. 
GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions GHG emissions reduction in operations Environmental data 7, 8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Indirect GHG emissions from electricity and heat Environmental data 7, 8 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Carbon efficiency of the product portfolio Environmental data 7, 8 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Carbon efficiency of the product portfolio Environmental data 8
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GHG emissions reduction in operations Carbon efficiency of the product portfolio Environmental data 8, 9 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Environmental data 7, 8 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions. 
Environmental data 7, 8. 
OG6 Sector Supplement. 
Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon Environmental data 7, 8. 
Spills Management (Effluents)
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Spills management 7, 8 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental management Spills management 7, 8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental management Spills management 7, 8. 
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-3 Significant spills Spills management Environmental data 7, 8. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 150


Environmental Compliance (Environmental Compliance)
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Management of environmental compliance 8 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental management Management of environmental compliance 8
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental management Management of environmental compliance 8. 
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 
Value creation and distribution to stakeholders No fines above 10,000 were paid in 2019.
8. 
GRI 400 Social Standards Series. 
Employment and Skills Development (Employment; Labor/Management Relations; Training and Education)
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Management of employment and skill development Diversity Activities in the area of employment Activities in the area of skill development 6
103-2 The management approach and its components Management of employment and skill development Diversity Activities in the area of employment Activities in the area of skill development 6
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Management of employment and skill development Diversity Activities in the area of employment Activities in the area of skill development 6. 
GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Workforce data 6 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees. 
Activities in the area of employment 401-2-b: Significant locations of operation are all the locations where OMV is the main operator. In Austria, no benefits are provided to full-time employees that are not provided to part-time employees.
401-3 Parental leave Workforce data 6. 
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Workforce data 6 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs. 
Activities in the area of skill development In Austria, outplacement programs are in place for employees who do not voluntarily leave the company.
6 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. 
Activities in the area of employment The total number of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews is disclosed, not the percentage.
6. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 151


Diversity (Diversity and Equal Opportunity)
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Diversity Workforce data 6
103-2 The management approach and its components Diversity Workforce data 6
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Diversity Workforce data 6. 
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity Workforce data 6. 
Health, Safety, and Security (Occupational Health and Safety)
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Health, safety, security, and environmental management Security management Security initiatives 103-2 The management approach and its components Health, safety, security, and environmental management Security management Information security management 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Health, safety, security, and environmental management Occupational safety management Security management Information security management. 
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Health management Occupational safety management 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation. 
Occupational safety management 403-3 Occupational health services Health promotion activities Occupational safety management 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety. 
Health promotion activities Occupational safety management 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Occupational safety management 403-6 Promotion of worker health Health management Health promotion activities 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships. 
Occupational safety management 403-9 Work-related injuries Occupational safety management Safety data 403-9-c: major hazards as causes of injuries are: slip, trip, fall; extreme temperature; explosion fire; fall from height; 403-9-c-ii: Slip, trip, fall hazards caused high-consequence injuries. 
OG13 Sector Supplement. 
Number of process safety events, by business activity Process safety management Safety data 7, 8. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 152


Human Rights (Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining; Child Labor; Forced or Compulsory Labor; Rights of Indigenous Peoples; Human Rights Assessment)
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Human rights Human rights management 1, 2, 4, 5 103-2 The management approach and its components Human rights management Human rights due diligence 1, 2, 4, 5 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Human rights due diligence 1, 2, 4, 5. 
GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor. 
Human rights management 5. 
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor. 
Human rights management 4. 
GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples. 
Human rights management Human rights due diligence 1, 2. 
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments. 
Human rights due diligence 1, 2 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures. 
Human rights training 1, 2. 
Local Communities (Local Communities)
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Community relations and development 1, 2 103-2 The management approach and its components Community relations and development Community grievance management 1, 2 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Community grievance management 1, 2. 
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. 
Community relations and development Community and social investments Community and social investment highlights 2019 1
413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities. 
Community relations and development 2. 
OG10 Sector Supplement. 
Number and description of significant disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples. 
Community grievance management 2. 
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions OMV Code of Business Ethics states "OMV does not support political parties. Donations to political parties are not allowed." Compliance with Principles of Business Ethics 10. 
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area. 
Value creation and distribution to stakeholders. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 153


Low-Carbon Products. 
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Carbon efficiency of the product portfolio 7, 8, 9 103-2 The management approach and its components Carbon efficiency of the product portfolio Management of carbon efficiency of the product portfolio Focus on gas products Focus on future mobility Focus on petrochemicals Focus on product responsibility 7, 8, 9 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Carbon efficiency of the product portfolio Management of carbon efficiency of the product portfolio 7, 8, 9. 
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change. 
Climate-related risks and opportunities, Climaterelated business resilience and the energy transition The total costs of actions taken to manage climaterelated risks have not been calculated yet.
7. 
OG14 Sector Supplement. 
Volume of biofuels produced and purchased meeting sustainability criteria. 
Focus on product responsibility 8, 9. 
Other GRI Indicators. 
Disclosures Link or direct answer UNGC. 
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Value creation and distribution to stakeholders In line with the OG4 Sector Supplement, we publish our report on payments to governments as part of our Annual Report.
201-4 Financial assistance received from government Value creation and distribution to stakeholders. 
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Waste management Environmental data 8. 
OG11 Sector Supplement. 
Number of sites that have been decommissioned and sites that are in the process of being decommissioned. 
Waste management 8. 
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity protection 8. 
OG4 Sector Supplement. 
Number and percentage of significant operating sites in which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored. 
Biodiversity protection 8. 
GRI 405: Diversity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity Workforce data 8. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 154


Reporting boundaries. 
HSSE data from operations under management control have been fully taken into account, i.e. data from all OMV Group activities with a stake of more than 50%, in particular:
Occupational workplace incident data for all contractors (including subcontractors and all lower tier subcontractors) under management control (i.e., data from all OMV Group activities with a stake of more than 50%) have been fully taken into account.
Contractor and subcontractor workplace incident data at joint ventures, including minority shareholdings, where OMV exerts controlling influence as an operator is reported.
The following data has not been taken into account for environmental data in this report:
Greenhouse Gas Scope 3 emissions include the following categories:
All grievances disclosed in the OMV Sustainability Report 2019 were received in the OMV Upstream-operated countries and in the three OMV refineries (Burghausen in Germany, Schwechat in Austria, and Petrobrazi in Romania).
The data is consolidated at Group level.
For more details, see the Assurance Statement of this OMV Sustainability Report.
OMV Petrom S.A. where OMV holds 51% of the shares. 
Retail Business (all retail brands of OMV, OMV Petrom and OMV Petrol Ofisi)
Upstream OMV operated countries: Austria, Kazakhstan, Tunisia, Yemen, Malaysia, New Zealand, Norway, United Arab Emirates, Romania (OMV Petrom)
Refineries Schwechat, Burghausen and Petrobrazi; including transport and storage facilities. 
Gas logistics (transit and storage in Austria and Romania)
Downstream Gas – power plants in Romania (Brazi & Petrom City)
Production enhancement contracts (PECs) for small fields with partners in Romania. 
Joint ventures, including minority shareholdings, where OMV exerts controlling influence as operator. 
Figures from holdings of 50% or less if there is no significant operational influence. 
Office buildings in European countries of OMV Downstream’s Marketing Divisions (except Austria and Romania) as well as of non-operative Upstream countries. 
Filling stations, due to the fact that the vast majority of them are operated by partners functioning as independent companies, except filling stations under the control of OMV Petrom Marketing that meet the above-mentioned boundary criteria. 
GHG emissions from processing and use of sold products: These include total sales amounts from companies that are under operational or financial control by OMV and include oil product sales at filling stations undertaken in the name of OMV.
Only sales to the market/customer are included. Pure “trading margin” sales as well as intercompany sales are excluded.
Since 2015, Scope 3 emissions from purchased goods and services and capital goods are included.
Since 2018 feedstock for refineries is included in Scope 3. 
Since 2019 biogenic CO2 emissions are included as other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 155


TCFD Recommendations Index. 
This TCFD Recommendations Index lists references to the publicly available information in the Sustainability Report 2019 and CDP Questionnaire that is consistent, fully or partially, with the recommendations for reporting of climaterelated financial disclosures. The classification of the Recommendations and Supporting Recommended Disclo- sures are based on the documents “Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures” and “Implementing the Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures: Supplemental Guidance for Non-Financial Groups”, June 2017.
Governance. 
Recommendations. 
Supporting Recommended Disclosures. 
Reference to the related section of the Sustainability Report 2019 and to the CDP questionnaire. 
Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities.
a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities.
CDP: (C1.2a) Sustainability Strategy Sustainability Governance Enterprise-wide risk management Management of carbon efficiency of operations Management of carbon efficiency of the product portfolio b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climaterelated risks and opportunities.
CDP: (C2.2b) Sustainability Governance Enterprise-wide risk management Climate-related risks and opportunities. 
Strategy. 
Recommendations. 
Supporting Recommended Disclosures. 
Reference to the related section of the Sustainability Report 2019 and to the CDP questionnaire. 
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material.
a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term.
CDP: (C2.1) CDP: (C2.3a) Mapping our sustainability risks Climate-related risks and opportunities Climate-related business resilience and the energy transition b) Describe the impact of climaterelated risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning.
CDP: (C2.5) CDP: (C2.3a) CDP: (C2.6) CDP: (C3.1c) CDP: (C3.1d) Climate-related risks and opportunitiesClimaterelated business resilience and the energy transition Management of carbon efficiency of operations Management of carbon efficiency of the product portfolio Mapping our sustainability risks Sustainability Strategy c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climaterelated scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.
CDP: (C2.5) CDP: (C2.6) CDP: (C3.1d) Mapping our sustainability risks Climate-related business resilience and the energy transition. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 156


Risk management. 
Recommendations. 
Supporting Recommended Disclosures. 
Reference to the related section of the Sustainability Report 2019 and to the CDP questionnaire. 
Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages climaterelated risks.
a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks.
CDP: (C2.2b) Mapping our sustainability risks Enterprise-wide risk management Climate-related risks and opportunities b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks.
CDP: (C2.2b) CDP: (C2.2c) Sustainability Governance Enterprise-wide risk management c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management.
Mapping our sustainability risks Enterprise-wide risk management Climate-related risks and opportunities. 
Metrics and targets. 
Recommendations. 
Supporting Recommended Disclosures. 
Reference to the related section of the Sustainability Report 2019 and to the CDP questionnaire. 
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material.
a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climaterelated risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.
CDP: (C1.3a) CDP: (C2.3) CDP: (C2.4) CDP: (C11.3a) Letter of the Supervisory Board Sustainability Governance Climate-related business resilience and the energy transition b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks.
IIndirect GHG emissions from electricity and heat GHG emissions reduction in operations Carbon Efficiency of the Product Portfolio Environmental data c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climaterelated risks and opportunities and performance against targets.
Sustainability Strategy. 
Specific Energy Group Metrics for the Oil and Gas Sector. 
Expenditures (OpEx) for lowcarbon alternatives (e.g., R&D, equipment, products, or services)
Innovation Management. 
Proportion of capital allocation to long-lived assets versus shortterm assets. 
Climate-related business resilience and the energy transition. 
Percent water withdrawn in regions with high or extremely high baseline water stress. 
Water Management Environmental Data. 
Investment (CapEx) in lowcarbon alternatives (e.g., capital equipment or assets)
Sustainability Strategy. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 157


Stakeholders’ Engagement Details. 
Stakeholder groups Type of OMV engagement. 
Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders. 
Engagement channel and approach to tackling the topics. 
Customers. 
Scientific institutions. 
Society. 
Governmental authorities. 
Peer companies. 
NGOs/NPOs. 
Advertising. 
Contracts. 
Events. 
Point of sale. 
Price and quality of products and services. 
Customer service. 
See Focus on product responsibility. 
See Carbon Efficiency of the Product Portfolio. 
Joint projects with industry partners, scientific organizations, and universities. 
Conferences Lectures. 
Sponsorships. 
Targeted internships and recruitment. 
Information on and best practice for new technologies. 
See Innovation. 
Sustainability projects such as educational/vocational programs. 
Stakeholder dialogue. 
Sponsorships and donations. 
Grievance mechanism. 
Integrity Platform. 
Social and environmental standards and impacts. 
Responsible business practice. 
Engagement with local community. 
See Environment. 
See Business Principles and Social Responsibility. 
Information exchange. 
Relationship management. 
Regular reporting (as required by legislation)
Regulatory framework. 
Business environment. 
Security of (energy) supply. 
See Value creation and distribution to stakeholders. 
See Significant financial assistance received from governments or governmental organizations in 2019. 
Transparent and active communication and information exchange in compliance with laws and regulations. 
Industry meetings. 
Contracts. 
Consortium meetings. 
Industry-wide standards for sustainability topics. 
Good practice in exploration, development, and production activities. 
Compliance with relevant standards, principles, and contracts. 
Participation in working groups such as IPIECA, IOGP. 
Participation in international conferences, workshops, meetings, events. 
Social projects, sponsorships, and donations. 
Stakeholder dialogue. 
Grievance mechanism. 
Environmental and climate risks. 
Social performance and risks. 
Human rights risks. 
Long-term OMV strategy. 
Responsiveness. 
Compliance with international and national social and environmental standards. 
Implementation of outcomes of Social and Environmental Impact Assessments. 
See Health, Safety, Security, and Environment. 
See Carbon Efficiency. 
See Business Principles and Social Responsibility. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 158


Stakeholder groups Type of OMV engagement. 
Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders. 
Engagement channel and approach to tackling the topics. 
Media. 
Industry associations/ networks. 
Capital market participants. 
SRI)
Employees. 
Suppliers and contractors. 
Press releases and conferences. 
Interviews. 
Media database. 
Company glossary. 
Press kit. 
Overall Company performance and results. 
Company strategy. 
Timely access to Company information. 
Regular engagement with spokespeople and senior representatives. 
Regular contact through authorized Company spokespeople. 
Transparent communication policy according to stock market regulations. 
Information exchange. 
Relationship management. 
Regulatory framework. 
Business environment. 
Information exchange and regular contact with industry associations. 
See Memberships. 
Regular reports and presentations. 
Roadshows, Annual General Meetings, conferences, investor meetings, and other events. 
Share price and overall Company performance. 
Creditworthiness. 
External credit ratings. 
Financial returns. 
Management credibility. 
Valuation compared to peers. 
Competitiveness. 
Regular reporting about performance. 
Regular investor relations activities. 
Targeted investor approach. 
Engagement with SRI investors. 
Regular contact through Investor Relations managers regarding results and press releases, with a special focus on socially responsible investing (
Transparent communication policy according to stock market regulations. 
Communication strategy with overarching targeted messages. 
Events for employees such as townhall events for information, small update events with an Executive Board member, loyalty ceremony. 
Internal communication channels such as employee magazine, internal newsletters, infoscreens, Intranet, internal blog. 
New Employee Orientation introduction for new employees. 
Foundation engagement initiatives. 
Employment contracts. 
Integrity Platform. 
Legal framework. 
Adequate working conditions. 
Career opportunities. 
Development possibilities. 
Competitive salaries. 
Transparent communication and information. 
Supportive management. 
See Employees. 
See Business Principles and Social Responsibility. 
Negotiations and contracts. 
Supplier audits and assessments. 
Field visits and management walk-arounds. 
Supplier events. 
Contractor management meetings. 
Conferences. 
Procurement regulations. 
Stipulations of Code of Conduct. 
Fair contract. 
On-time payment. 
Adequate working conditions. 
See Supply Chain. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 159


Memberships. 
OMV Group. 
A3PS – Austrian Association for Advanced Propulsion Systems. 
ABC – Austrian Business Club. 
AEA – Austrian Energy Agency. 
AEB – Association of European Businesses. 
AFEER – Association Of Electricity Suppliers in Romania aireg – Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy in Germany. 
Aktienforum. 
AmCham Moldova – American Chamber of Commerce in Moldova. 
AmCham Russia – American Chamber of Commerce in Russia. 
AmCham Romania – American Chambre of Commerce in Romania. 
APPEA – Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association. 
ARCEx – Research Centre for Arctic Petroleum Exploration. 
ARERA – Autorità di Regolazione per Energia Reti e Ambiente (obligatory membership)
ARGE E-CERT. 
ARP – Romanian Petroleum Association. 
ARIR – Romanian Investor Relation Association. 
ARPEE – Romanian Association for promoting Energy Efficiency. 
ASI – Austrian Standards International. 
Asociația Furnizorilor de Energie Electrică din România. 
ASPEN Institute. 
ASRO – Romanian Standard Association. 
ATTC – Austrian Traffic Telematics Cluster. 
ATR – Association of Treasurers of Romania. 
Austrian Business Council Dubai & The Northern Emirates. 
Austrian WPC National Committee. 
Autorità dell’Energia Elettrica e Gas (obligatory membership)
BaSEC – Barents Sea Exploration Collaboration. 
BBS – Bundesverband Behälterschutz / Gütegemeinschaft Tankschutz & Tanktechnik. 
BDEW – German Association of Energy and Water Industries. 
BGF – Bucharest Geosience Forum. 
BusinessEurope. 
Business Leaders’ Health and Safety Forum. 
BVEG – German Association of Natural Gas, Crude Oil, and Geothermal Energy. 
BVÖ – Miners’ Association Austria ČAPPO – Czech Association of Petroleum Industry and Trade. 
CCIFER – Chambre of Commerce d'industrie et d'Agriculture Francaise en Roumanie. 
CCIGR – Romanian-German Chamber of Commerce & Industry. 
CEPS – Central an South Est European Business Forum for Energy. 
CDG – Christian Doppler Research Association. 
CEN – European Committee for Standardization. 
CEDIGAZ – International Association for Natural Gas. 
CEP – Clean Energy Partnership. 
CertifHy – Gurantee of Origin scheme for Green Hydrogen. 
ChemDelta Bavaria. 
Chemie-Cluster Bayern. 
CIFRA – Centre for Integrated Remote Sensing and Forecasting for Arctic Operations. 
CIRA – Cercle Investor Relations Austria. 
COHRS – Connecting Hydrogen Refuelling Stations. 
CONCAWE – Conservation of Clean Air and Water in Europe. 
CONCORDIA – Employers Confederation. 
CNCPIR – Romanian Association Chamber Pattern of Attorny. 
CNR-CME Romanian National Committee of the World Energy Council. 
CNR-CME Romanian National Committee of the World Petroleum Council. 
DEAe – European Drilling Engineering Association. 
Deutscher Franchiseverband e.V.
DIN – German Institute for Standardization. 
DGMK – German Society for Petroleum and Coal Science and Technology. 
EAP – Oil & Gas Industry Energy Access Platform. 
EASEE-gas. 
EBIS – European Barge Inspection Scheme. 
EBV – German National Petroleum Stockpiling Agency. 
EEF – European Energy Forum. 
EFET – European Federation of Energy Traders (EFET)
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 160


ENTSO-G – European Network of Transmission System Operators for Gas. 
EPG – Energy Policy Group. 
EPI – Profesional Representatives before European Patent Office. 
EPRA – European Petroleum Refiners Association. 
ESANZ – Energy Skills Association of New Zealand. 
European Petroleum Refiners Association. 
FGW – Austrian Association of Gas and District Heating Supply Companies. 
FIC – Foreign Investors Council. 
FuelsEurope – European Petroleum Industry Association. 
FPPG – Oil and Gas Employers Federation. 
FVMI – Austrian Association of the Petroleum Industry. 
GIE – Gas Infrastructure Europe. 
GMN – Geopressure Management Network. 
GSV – Austrian Association for Transport and Infrastructure. 
GS1 – Romanian Association for International Numbering of Articles. 
GTUsers.com. 
H2 Europe. 
H2 MOBILITY. 
HR Innovation Roundtable. 
Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (obligatory membership)
Hungarian Energy Traders’ Association. 
HyCentA. 
Hydrogen Mobility Europe. 
IATA – International Air Transport Association. 
IBC – International Business Congress. 
IFP – Énergies nouvelles. 
IFSF – International Forecourt Standards Forum. 
IGU – International Gas Union. 
INES – Association of natural gas storage operators in German. 
IOGP – International Association of Oil & Gas Producers. 
IPA – Independent Project Analysis. 
IPIECA – International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association. 
IV – Federation of Austrian Industries. 
IWO – Austrian Institute of Heat and Oil Technology. 
KWS – Powertech Training Center Essen. 
MÁSZ – Hungarian Petroleum Association. 
MCG – BusinessNZ’s Major Companies Group, New Zealand. 
MWV – Association of the German Petroleum Industry. 
NAMUR – User Association of Automation Technology in Process Industries. 
Norwegian Oil and Gas Association. 
OCIMF – Oil Companies International Marine Forum ÖGEW – Austrian Society of Petroleum Sciences. 
Oil Companies Association SRB. 
PAF – Petroleum Advisory Forum. 
PEA – Production Engineering Association. 
PEPANZ – Petroleum Exploration & Production Association New Zealand. 
Petro Arctic. 
PPDM – Professional Petroleum Data Management Association. 
PRVA – Public Relations Association Austria. 
PWRI OPNet – Produced Water Re-Injection Operational Network. 
Russian Gas Society. 
Russian-German Chamber of Commerce. 
RBSTA – Romanian Black Sea. 
ROPEPCA – Romanian Petroleum Exploration and Production Company Asociation. 
SAPPO – Slovak Association of Petroleum Industry and Trade. 
Society of Petroleum Engineers. 
Solomon Associates. 
Technology Management Network. 
TÜV AUSTRIA. 
TÜV SÜD. 
United Nations Global Compact. 
United Nations Global Compact Network Austria. 
UNITI – Federal Association of MediumSized Mineral Oil Companies. 
VCI – German Association of the Chemical Industry. 
VGB PowerTech vfi – Association for the Promotion of Research and Innovation. 
Vienna Airport Region Association. 
VNL – Association for Network Logistics. 
VPI – Austrian Assocoation of Private Wagon Keepers. 
WIVA P&G – Hydrogen Initiative Model Region Austria Power & Gas. 
WKÖ – Austrian Federal Economic Chamber (obligatory membership)
World Energy Council Austria. 
World Energy Council Germany. 
Zukunft ERDGAS e.V. (member via CEGH)
ZDS – Association of Employers of Slovenia. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 161


Abbreviations. 
A
Abs. Absolute. 
ACWI All Country World Index. 
AIRR Action Item Response Rate. 
ARMS Active Risk Manager System. 
ATX Austrian Traded Index. 
B
BES biodiversity and ecosystem services bn billion boe barrel oil equivalent boe/d barrel oil equivalent per day. 
C °C degree Celsius. 
CCPP combined cycle power plant. 
CDP Carbon Disclosure Project. 
CEE Central and Eastern Europe. 
CEO Chief Executive Officer. 
CFO Chief Financial Officer. 
CFPP cold filter plugging point. 
CGM Community Grievance Mechanism. 
CH4 methane. 
CHP combined heat and power/cogeneration. 
C-IMS Central Integrated Management System. 
CLP Classification, Labeling, and Packaging of substances and mixtures. 
CMF Corrosion Management Framework. 
CNG compressed natural gas. 
COBIT Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology. 
CO2 carbon dioxide. 
CSR Corporate Social Responsibility. 
D
DAX German Stock Index. 
DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index. 
E
EITI Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. 
EMAS Eco Management and Audit Scheme. 
EMS Environmental Management System. 
EOR Enhanced Oil Recovery. 
EO/MEG ethylene oxide/monoethylene glycol. 
EU European Union. 
EU ETS EU Emissions Trading System. 
EUR euro. 
ERA Environmental Risk Assessment. 
ESG Environmental, Social, and Governance. 
EWRM Enterprise-Wide Risk Management. 
F
FAME fatty acid methyl ester. 
FX foreign exchange. 
G
G2P gas to power. 
GHG greenhouse gas. 
GmbH Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung. 
GJ gigajoule. 
GRI Global Reporting Initiative. 
GWh gigawatt hour. 
GWT Global Water Tool. 
H
H2 hydrogen. 
HAZOP Hazard and Operability. 
HiPos High-Potential Incidents. 
HR Human Resources. 
HSSE Health, Safety, Security, and Environment. 
HVO hydrotreated vegetable oil. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 162


I. 
IAM Identity and Access Management. 
ICPT Institute for Research and Technological Design. 
IDW Institute of Public Auditors in Germany. 
IEA International Energy Agency. 
IEC International Electrotechnical Commission. 
IGD Integrated Graduate Development. 
ILO International Labour Organization. 
IMS Integrated Management System. 
IOGP International Association of Oil & Gas Producers. 
IoT Internet of Things. 
IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry Association for Environment and Social Issues. 
ISCC International Sustainability & Carbon Certification. 
ISO International Organization for Standardization. 
IT information technology. 
J
JPT Joint Project Team. 
K kboe/d 1,000 barrel oil equivalent per day kg kilogram kg/h kilogram per hour. 
KPI Key Performance Indicator kt kilotonnes kW kilowatt. 
L
LMRA Last-Minute Risk Analysis. 
LNG liquefied natural gas. 
LOPC loss of primary containment. 
LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan. 
LTIR Lost-Time Injury Rate. 
M m2 square meter m3 cubic meter. 
MAE Major Accident Event mg/kg milligram per kilogram mn million. 
MTF Montfort Trimble Foundation. 
MUL Montanuniversität Leoben. 
MW megawatt. 
MWh megawatt hour. 
N
NaDiVeg Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act. 
NGO non-governmental organization. 
NIS network and information security. 
NIST National Institute of Standards and Technology. 
N2O nitrous oxide. 
NM-VOC non-methane volatile organic compound. 
NOC National Oil Corporation. 
NOx nitrogen oxide. 
NP New Policies. 
NPO non-profit organization n.r. not reported. 
O
OCIMF Oil Companies International Marine Forum. 
OECD Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. 
OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer. 
OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Standard. 
OPEX operating expenses. 
OT operational technology. 
P
PC personal computer. 
PEC Production enhancement contracts. 
PJ petajoule. 
PVC polyvinyl chloride. 
Q
QR quick response. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 163


R. 
R&D Research and Development. 
REACH Registration, Evaluation, and Authorisation of Chemicals. 
ROACE return on average capital employed. 
S
S.A. Societate pe Acțiuni. 
SAP Systems, Applications, and Products in Data Processing. 
SDG Sustainable Development Goal. 
SIA Social Impact Assessment. 
SMS Security Management System. 
SO2 sulfur dioxide. 
SRI Socially Responsible Investment. 
S.R.L. Societate cu răspundere limitată
S&P Standard & Poor’s. 
T toe ton of oil equivalent t ton. 
TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. 
TMSA Tanker Management and Self-Assessment. 
TJ terajoule. 
TRIR Total Recordable Injury Rate. 
TW terawatt. 
TWh terawatt hour. 
U
UK United Kingdom. 
UN United Nations. 
V
VAM vinyl acetate monomer. 
VAT value added tax. 
W
WEO World Energy Outlook. 
WRF Water Risk Filter. 
WRI World Resources Institute. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 164


Definitions. 
GHG Scope 1 Direct emissions from operations that are owned or controlled by the organizat. 
GHG Scope 2 Energy indirect emissions resulting from the generation of purchased or acquired electricity, heating, cooling or steam. 
GHG Scope 3 Other indirect emissions that occur outside the organization, including both Upstream and Downstream emissions. 
Tier 1 Process Safety Event (PSE) is a loss of primary containment (LOPC) with the greatest consequence. A Tier 1 PSE is an unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material, including non-toxic and non-flammable materials (e.g.: steam, hot condensate, nitrogen, compressed CO2 or compressed air), from a process that results in one or more of the consequences listed below:
An employee, contractor or subcontractor days away from work injury and/ or fatality;
A hospital admission and/or fatality of a third-party. 
An officially declared community evacuation or community shelter-in-place. 
A fire or explosion resulting in a greater than or equal to 25,000 $ of direct cost to the Company. 
A pressure relief device (PRD) discharge to atmosphere whether directly or via a downstream destructive device that results in one or more of the following four consequences:
Liquid carryover. 
Discharge to a potentially unsafe location. 
An onsite shelter-in-place. 
Public protective measures (e.g. road closure) and a PRD discharge quantity greater than the established threshold quantities in any one hour. 
A release of material greater than the established threshold quantities in any one hour.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 165


Tier 2 Process Safety Event (PSE) is a loss of primary containment (LOPC) with lesser consequence. A Tier 2 PSE is an unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material, including non-toxic and non-flammable materials (e.g.: steam, hot condensate, nitrogen, compressed CO2 or compressed air), from a process that results in one or more of the consequences listed below and is not reported in Tier 1:
Tier 3 Process Safety Event (PSE) indicator records an operational situation, typically considered a“near miss” which has challenged the safety system by progressing through one or more barrier weaknesses to result in an event or condition with:
Lost-time injuries are any occupational injuries resulting in fatalities, permanent total disabilities and lost workday cases, but excluding restricted work cases and medical treatment cases.
Total recordable injuries are any injuries resulting in fatalities, permanent total disabilities, lost workday cases, restricted work cases and medical treatment cases.
An employee, contractor or subcontractor recordable injury;
A fire or explosion resulting in a greater than or equal to 2,500 $ of direct cost to the Company. 
A pressure relief device (PRD) discharge to atmosphere whether directly or via a downstream destructive device that results in one or more of the following four consequences:
Liquid carryover. 
Discharge to a potentially unsafe location. 
An onsite shelter-in-place. 
Public protective measures (eg.: road closure) and a PRD discharge quantity greater than the established threshold quantities in any one hour. 
A release of material greater than the established threshold quantities in any one hour.
Consequence that do not meet the criteria for a reportable Tier 1 or Tier 2 event; or. 
No actual consequences, but the recognition that in other circumstances further barriers could have been breached and a Tier 1 or Tier 2 event could have happened.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 166


Contacts and imprint. 
OMV Aktiengesellschaft Trabrennstrasse 6-8 1020 Vienna, Austria Tel. +43 1 40440-0 info@omv.com www.omv.com. 
Sustainability & Reporting Bernhard Heneis OMV Aktiengesellschaft Trabrennstrasse 6-8 1020 Vienna, Austria info.sustainability@omv.com. 
Publisher OMV Aktiengesellschaft, Vienna. 
Photos OMV archiv. 
Design and Implementation nexxar GmbH Online annual reports and online sustainability reports www.nexxar.com. 
OMV Social Media Channels. 
The following is a list of OMV’s official social media accounts ‒ We look forward to seeing you there!
Blog blog.omv.com. 
Twitter www.twitter.com/omv. 
YouTube www.youtube.com/omv. 
LinkedIn www.linkedin.com/company/omv. 
XING www.xing.com/companies/omv. 
Whatchado www.whatchado.com/en/omv. 
Facebook www.facebook.com/OMV. 
Instagram www.instagram.com/omv. 
Mobile apps. 
OMV Station Finder App www.omv.com/products/omv-stationfinderapp. 
OMV Investor Relations App www.omv.com/investors/app. 
Further Publications. 
OMV Factbook www.omv.com/factbook. 
OMV Annual Report www.omv.com/annual-report. 
Disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements This report contains forward-looking statements. Forwardlooking statements usually may be identified by the use of terms such as “outlook,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “target,” “objective,” “estimate,” “goal,” “may,” “will” and similar terms, or by their context. These forward-looking statements are based on beliefs, estimates and assumptions currently held by and information currently available to OMV. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown, because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future and are outside the control of OMV. Consequently, the actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Therefore, recipients of this report are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Neither OMV nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of any of the forward- looking statements contained in this report. OMV disclaims any obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, revised assumptions and expectations, and future developments and events. This report does not contain any recommendation or invitation to buy or sell securities in OMV.
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 167


Assurance statement. 
To the Executive Board OMV Aktiengesellschaft Wien. 
Report about the Independent Assurance of the non-financial Reporting 2019. 
We have performed a limited assurance engagement regarding the non-financial reporting 2019 (hereafter “Reporting”) in accordance with the requirements of the § 267a UGB Nachhaltigkeits- und Diversitätsverbesserungsgesetz (NaDiVeG) and the GRI Standards CORE Option of OMV Aktiengesellschaft (hereafter “OMV”), Wien.
The assurance engagement covers the Reporting 2019 as follows:
Sustainability Report 2019 concerning information in and references linked from the GR Content Index to sustainability disclosures and data for the reporting period 2019 as PDF.
We base the scope of our assurance on the fact that no information relevant for the assurance is outsourced to the homepage.
Responsibilities of the Legal Representatives. 
OMV´s legal representatives are responsible for the proper compilation of the Reporting 2019 in accordance with § 267a UGB56 (NaDiVeG) as well as with the GRI-Standards57.
The legal representatives have signed the Letter of Representation, which we have added to our files.
Responsibilities of the Assurance Providers. 
Based on our assurance procedures deemed necessary, it is our responsibility to asses whether we have noted issues which cause us to believe, that in all material matters the Sustainability Reporting 2019 is not in accordance with § 267a UGB (NaDiVeG) as well as with the GRI-Standards.
Our assurance engagement has been conducted in accordance with the “International Federation of Accountants’ ISAE 3000 (Revised)” Standards.
Our professional duties include requirements in relation to our independence as well as planning our assurance engagement based on the materiality considerations in order to allow us to obtain a limited level of assurance.
According to the “General Conditions of Contract for the Public Accounting Professions” our liability is limited. An accountant is only liable for violating intentionally or by gross negligence the contractual duties and obligations entered into. In cases of gross negligence, the maximum liability towards the client and any third party together is EUR 726,730 in the aggregate.
Our procedures have been designed to obtain a limited level of assurance on which to base our conclusions. The extent of evidence gathering procedures performed is less than for that of a reasonable assurance engagement (such as a financial audit) and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided.
56 https://www.ris.bka.gv.at/Dokumente/Bundesnormen/NOR40189009/NOR40189009.pdf 57 https://www.globalreporting.org/standards. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 168


We have performed all the procedures deemed necessary to obtain the evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions. Our main procedures were:
The objective of our engagement was neither a financial audit nor a financial audit review of past-oriented financial information. We did not perform any further assurance procedures on data, which were subject of the annual financial audit, the corporate governance report and the risk reporting. We merely checked this data was presented in accordance with the GRI Guidelines. Neither the detection and investigation of criminal offenses, such as embezzlement or other fraudulent actions, nor the assessment of effectiveness and efficiency of management were subject to our engagement. We did not test data derived from external surveys or prospective information. Our assurance engagement solely covers references directly specified in the GRI Content Index. It does not cover any further web references.
We submit this report based on our assurance engagement for which, also regarding third parties, the “General Conditions of Contract for the Public Accounting Professions”58, are binding.
Conclusion. 
Based on our assurance procedures we haven’t noted any issues that causes us to believe that in all material matters the Sustainability Reporting 2019 is not in accordance with § 267a UGB (NaDiVeG) as well as with the GRI-Standards.
Vienna, March 24, 2020. 
Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H.
Mag. Gerhard Schwartz Mag. Stefan Uher. 
Obtain an overview over the industry as well as the operational and organizational structure of the organization;
Interview a selection of senior managers and executives to understand systems, processes and internal control procedures related to the content of the Sustainability Reporting assured, which support the data collection;
Review relevant group level, board and executive documents to assess awareness and priority of issues in the Sustainability Reporting and to understand how progress is tracked and internal controls are implemented;
Examine risk management and governance processes related to sustainability and critical evaluation of the disclosure in the non-financial Reporting;
Perform analytical procedures at group level;
Perform site visits Romania (OMV Petrom Headquarter, Refinery Petrobrazi, CCPP Brazi) and Gänserndorf to obtain evidence on performance indicators. In addition, we reviewed data samples of the selected disclosures in the Sustainability Reporting at site level for completeness, reliability, accuracy and timeliness;
Review data and processes on a sample basis to assess whether they have been collected, consolidated and reported appropriately at group level. This included obtaining an opinion whether the data had been reported in an accurate, reliable and complete manner;
Review the coverage of material issues which have been raised in stakeholder dialogues, in media reports and environmental and social reports of peers;
Assessment whether the Requirements according to § 267a UGB (NaDiVeG) have been adequately addressed;
Challenge a sample of statements and claims in the Sustainability Reporting 2019 against our work steps and the GRI Standards principles and. 
Review whether the GRI Standards were consistently applied for the CORE Option.
58 Version dated 18 April 2018, published by the Chamber of Public Accountants and Tax Consultants, Chapter 7, https://www.ksw.or.at/PortalData/1/Resources/aab/
AAB_2018_de.pdf. 
OMV SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 / REPORTING ANNEXES 169