Leading the world when the world needs us most. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020


4 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILI. 
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: ECONOMIC IMPACT. 
TY REPORT 1 About this report 3 CEO letter 10 CFO letter 12 Our business and social purpose 16 Governance 18 Stakeholder engagement 20 Engaging with Indigenous Peoples 22 Putting customers first 22 Ethics 24 Risk management and business continuity 26 Social purpose priorities 27 Giving back to our community 30 Caring for our planet 40 Innovating in healthcare 44 Empowering Canadians with connectivity 46 Foundational priorities 47 Economic impacts 50 Our people and culture 62 Supply chain sustainability 66 Privacy, transparency and regulatory compliance 70 Limited assurance report 73 Global Reporting Initiative Index 77 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index 79 Caution regarding forward-looking statements. 
CORPORATE RECOGNITION IN SUSTAINABILITY 5th consecutive year on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. 
Global 100. 
Most Sustainable Corporations in the World by Corporate Knights. 
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 87% in domestic Pulsecheck engagement survey. 
Top 100. 
Employers in Canada by Mediacorp. 
ENVIRONMENTAL EXCELLENCE 37%
GHG emissions reduction over 2010 levels for our global operations 17% energy consumption reduction over 2010 levels for our global operations. 
COMMUNITY IMPACT $85 million contributied to charitable and community organizations by TELUS, team members and retirees.
1.25 million hours volunteered by team members and retirees


TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 1. 
About this report. 
Sustainability is embedded into our core business strategy and our sustainability performance provides us with social, environmental and economic opportunity. Through our 2020 Sustainability Report, we aim to disclose our performance on issues that are important to our stakeholders, have a significant impact on our company, and that we have an opportunity to positively influence.
As signatories to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we report on our contributions to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as well as our progress on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption principles through our UNGC Communication on Progress. Our target audience for this report includes TELUS team members, customers, investors (including shareholders), community members, suppliers, governments, rating agencies, non-governmental organizations, and society.
Independent assurance This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Core option and we have engaged Deloitte LLP as our independent assurance providers for this information. Our Limited Assurance Report can be found on page 70.
Reporting period and organizational boundaries The reporting period for information contained in the 2020 Sustainability Report covers January 1 to December 31, 2020, unless otherwise stated. Unless stated otherwise, the material addresses TELUS’ global operations, including all acquired companies, excluding Lionbridge AI that was acquired in December 2020.
Any forward-looking information should be read together with the cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements on page 79.
Third-party information This report contains hyperlinks to other websites operated by parties other than TELUS. These hyperlinks are provided for reference only. TELUS is not responsible for the availability of these external sites, nor is it responsible for the content, advertising, products or other materials shared. Our inclusion of hyperlinks does not imply any endorsement of the material on these websites or any association with their operators. Under no circumstances shall TELUS be held responsible or liable, directly or indirectly, for any loss or damage caused or alleged to have been caused in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services available on the linked websites.
Financial information and trademarks All financial information is reported in Canadian dollars unless otherwise specified. Copyright © 2021 TELUS Corporation. All rights reserved. Certain products and services named in this report are trademarks. The symbols TM and ® indicate those owned by TELUS Corporation or its subsidiaries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
Changes to reporting in 2020 We are always seeking to improve the accuracy, reliability and scope of our reporting. If prior years’ data is restated, it will be indicated within this report. For the first time, we have gathered our sustainability data into a separate document that can be found here. The 2020 ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) Data Sheet features our complete set of sustainability performance data and provides four years of data where information is available.
Learn more Our report, as well as our archive of past sustainability reports, is available at telus.com/sustainability. In addition, we regularly update our website with features and information on our work in sustainability and social purpose. We continuously seek ways to improve our reporting and welcome your feedback and suggestions. Questions or comments can be directed to sustainability@telus.com.


2 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
Companion Documents 2020 Annual Report 2020 ESG Data Sheet 2021 Annual Information Form 2021 Information Circular. 
UNGC Communication on Progress. 
Commitments. 
As part of our commitment to sustainability, we are supporters of, or signatories to, the following reporting frameworks:
Recognition We are proud to have been recognized with the following awards and indices inclusion for our globally-leading sustainability performance:
UPDATED PHOTO TO COME. 
TELUS Corporation Annual Information Form for the year ended December 31, 2020. 
February 11, 2021. 
Leading the world when the world needs us most. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2020. 
TELUS 2020 ESG Data Sheet. 
INFORMATION CIRCULAR 2021. 
Leading the world when the world needs us most. 
United Nations Global Compact. 
Communication on Progress. 
October 2020


TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 3. 
CEO LETTER. 
Connection. 
Passion. 
Opportunity. 
Teamwork Innovation


4 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
CEO LETTER. 
Leading the world when the world needs us most. 
In a year like no other, TELUS provided the technology, and the human and social innovation, to keep all of our stakeholders – from our customers, investors and team members to our frontline healthcare workers and most vulnerable citizens – connected to the information, resources and people that matter most. As the global leader in social capitalism, TELUS responded in unprecedented and meaningful ways to ensure our fellow citizens remained safe, informed and productive throughout 2020.
Our TELUS team remains passionate about progressing our sustainability goals, enabled by strong governance, our globally admired culture and our commitment to our social purpose. As signatories to the United Nations Global Compact, we also report our progress in respect of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption practices, which reinforces our commitment to creating stronger, more sustainable communities where we live, work and serve.
Leading the world by putting our customers first Our team leveraged our long-standing customers first culture and directed this asset as the cornerstone to answering the challenges of the global health emergency. We prioritized the health and safety of our clients while redoubling our efforts to provide a reliable connected experience across our portfolio of services. In this regard, the TELUS team expeditiously pivoted our operations to keep our customers safe at home, in store and online. Notably, we enabled 95 per cent of our global team members to continue supporting our customers from their homes. In addition, our industry-first virtual installation and repair processes and in-store protocols created safe environments for our customers and team members. Our pandemic planning framework was shared with over 500,000 business customers, enabling them to leverage the processes and research completed by our team of business and medical experts. We also empowered more than 6,400 businesses across Canada with virtual work solutions, and launched our award-winning #StandWithOwners campaign to support and promote small businesses across Canada.
Our team worked around the clock to bolster our network infrastructure to ensure we could support four times the amount of network traffic compared to our busiest pre-COVID-19 day, enabling Canadians to work, learn, socialize, access entertainment and transact online safely from their homes, whilst simultaneously reducing our carbon footprint. To put this into perspective, our team’s efforts to sustain our networks throughout COVID-19 were akin to supporting Super Bowl-level traffic, every day. We also augmented our digital platform to support 15 times the usual traffic, allowing people to access TELUS online when traditional channels were disrupted by lockdowns. This initiative supported 50 per cent growth in digital transactions by the close of the year.
Connecting Canadians with globally leading networks The TELUS team’s swift and thoughtful actions to support Canadians throughout the pandemic were underpinned by our world-leading network technology. Indeed, since 2000, we have invested more than $200 billion in state-of-the-art network infrastructure and operations, supporting the continued expansion of our 5G and PureFibre networks.
This investment resulted in TELUS’ wireless network being recognized in three major, independent network reports in 2020: UK-based Opensignal ranked TELUS as having the fastest network in the world and again in February 2021 for the ninth time, with Opensignal stating that “TELUS remains the operator to beat in Canada”; U.S.-based Ookla recognized our mobile network as the fastest and most expansive on a national basis in 2020 and again in February 2021 for the seventh time; and Canada-based Tutela placed TELUS first in respect of quality, latency and download throughput, nationally, for the second consecutive year. At a time when social, economic, health and educational connections have become more important than ever, this recognition has been particularly resonant.
TELUS is providing world-leading connectivity to urban and rural communities alike. Indeed, in its May report, Opensignal confirmed that the rural experience on TELUS’ network is better and faster than in any location within G7 nations, with the exception of Japan, a significantly smaller country than Canada, which at 49 Mbps was only slightly faster than TELUS’ 48 Mbps. Moreover, according to Opensignal: “If rural Canada were a


5 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT country, it would rank 12th in our Download Speed Experience ranking, with our rural Canadian users on average seeing faster 4G download speeds than our users in Sweden, New Zealand, France and 73 of the other countries we reported on.” In fact, wireless speeds available in rural Canada exceed those of any region in the entire United States. Clearly, Canadians can count on TELUS – above anyone else, anywhere else – to keep them connected.
Our award-winning wireless network is supported by globally leading fibre infrastructure that enables the vital connections required to keep our citizens and communities connected and productive, while also providing the backbone for our 5G-enabled world. By the end of 2020, 2.5 million households and businesses were connected to TELUS PureFibre across 137 communities in our broadband footprint. Like our wireless network, our PureFibre network continues to receive international recognition. Notably, U.S.-based PCMag ranked our PureFibre network as Best for Gaming in 2020 and recognized TELUS as the fastest internet service provider, nationally. In addition, TELUS PureFibre is the only internet service in Canada to receive a perfect performance score on the Netflix Speed Index for six consecutive months.
Leading the world through caring for our communities Our ability to do well and do good in our communities, thanks to the patronage of our customers, had a profound impact on the lives of citizens worldwide. Over the course of a challenging year,
TELUS dedicated $150 million in support of COVID-19 relief efforts to build public healthcare capacity and assist vulnerable communities. I was privileged to provide further support by donating 25 per cent of my 2020 salary to essential hospitals, community health centres and critical COVID-19 research. A portion of my salary donation was matched by the Entwistle Family Foundation, through a $150,000 gift, to maximize the TELUS team’s commitment to supporting healthcare and helping those most impacted by the pandemic. This included donations to: BC Women’s Hospital Foundation to support virtual care technology; McGill University Health Centre Foundation to enable ICU patients to connect virtually with loved ones; Covenant Health Foundation in Alberta to support vulnerable and isolated seniors; and Sunnybrook Hospital Foundation in Ontario to address the alarming increase in suicides during the pandemic.
Our Connecting for Good programs enabled TELUS to provide vital connections and care for over 142,000 vulnerable Canadians. Throughout the health emergency, we expanded our support, providing two months of free Internet for Good to lowincome families, broadening the program to include low-income Canadians living with disabilities and expediting access to the program for students in need. Similarly, we extended Mobility for Good nationally, making it available to 20,000 youth embarking on a difficult transition out of foster care. TELUS also expanded the program to 2.2 million low-income seniors disproportionately impacted by COVID-19, and to frontline healthcare workers, providing two months’ free access to their monthly rate plan. In


6 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT addition, our team donated more than 14,000 devices, tablets and prepaid SIM cards to help isolated seniors, hospital patients and vulnerable Canadians stay connected. Finally, we unveiled seven new mobile Health for Good clinics, many of which were repurposed to support COVID-19 response efforts, including administering over 12,700 assessments and tests.
In response to the health crisis, we evolved our TELUS Days of Giving into a year-long giving campaign. The subsequent 1.2 million virtual and socially distanced acts of giving represented 1.25 million volunteer hours in support of our communities. Throughout 2020, TELUS contributed $85 million, representing five per cent of 2020 pre-tax profits – more than any other Canadian company – to charitable and community organizations worldwide. Since 2000, our TELUS family has contributed $1.3 billion, including $820 million in financial support and 1.6 million days of volunteerism, to make the world a better place.
In 2020, our team introduced critter masks to help keep Canadians safe while raising over half a million dollars for the TELUS Friendly Future Foundation to support pandemic-related initiatives. Since its launch two years ago, the Foundation has raised $16.5 million in support of 1,100 charitable projects. Similarly, our TELUS Community Boards continue to offer hope, care and support to two million young people in need each year, with our 18 Boards investing $81 million in 7,600 grassroots organizations and initiatives, globally, since 2005.
Complementing these efforts, we launched our TELUS Pollinator Fund for Good. At $100 million, it is one of the largest corporate social impact funds in the world. The Fund offers early-stage financing to purpose-driven companies and entrepreneurs that require support to bring their socially innovative, sustainable businesses to life as they protect the planet our children will inherit.
The TELUS team’s exceptional efforts in helping our communities and fellow citizens surmount the challenges presented by the pandemic earned TELUS the first place ranking on the globally crowd-sourced “Did they Help” Heroes Leaderboard for 10 consecutive months and counting.
Caring for critters. 
In July, several TELUS team members visited an alpaca farm in Mont-Saint-Hilaire, Quebec, to help improve the animals’ habitat. The team wanted to support a small, family-run business as part of our #StandWithOwners campaign and were looking for an activity where team members could maintain safe physical distancing. Together, these team members cleared a forest of debris to provide more room for the alpacas, ensuring they could roam freely and enjoy the wilderness.
Progressing our growth businesses with the best team on the planet The TELUS team’s commitment to our customers and communities underpins the high-performance culture we have built together. In support of our team’s well-being as we navigated the pandemic, we delivered a number of initiatives to promote mental and physical health, while keeping team members meaningfully connected. We introduced an Ask the Expert series, trained 2,000 leaders to support the mental health of their teams, provided centralized access to specialty mental health services, and gifted the meditation and sleep app, Calm, to all team members.
Our Connecting for Good programs enabled TELUS to provide vital connections and care for over 142,000 vulnerable Canadians. Throughout the health emergency, we expanded our support, providing two months of free Internet for Good to low-income families, broadening the program to include low-income Canadians living with disabilities and expediting access to the program for students in need.
CEO LETTER


7 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
CEO LETTER. 
In 2020, our team members also undertook a series of initiatives to further enhance diversity and inclusion (D&I) at TELUS and reaffirm our commitment to equity, fairness and social justice. Notably, we welcomed our Chief D&I Officer and D&I Advisory Board to support our ongoing journey. Moreover, our leadership in D&I extends to our Board of Directors, which is comprised of 23 per cent of independent directors who represent a visible minority or are Indigenous, and 46 per cent who are female.
In a year when we evolved the way we work and connect, our team achieved our highest engagement level ever at 87 per cent, advancing our status within the top 10 per cent of all large employers, globally. The skill, passion and grit of our team, underpinned by our award-winning culture, continues to drive better customer outcomes, propelling our business performance to new heights and empowering us to give back to the communities we serve.
Leveraging innovation to keep people healthy and safe Our diverse and inclusive team leveraged our culture of caring to support a healthier and more connected world in 2020. Guided by the scientific, evidence-based advice of the TELUS Medical Advisory Council, TELUS Health quickly scaled, augmented and deployed our suite of virtual care offerings, enabling Canadians to receive personalized, quality physical and mental healthcare from the safety of their homes, and helping to alleviate the pressure on frontline care workers and health centres.
By way of example, we offered access to virtual care visits between patients and their doctors through our electronic medical record virtual visit solution; enabled healthcare providers to virtually observe and support patients living with, or at risk of, COVID-19 through our Home Health Monitoring solution; empowered patients with access to one-on-one video consultations with a locally licensed doctor at no cost from their smartphone through Babylon by TELUS Health; provided personal emergency support for elderly citizens living independently with LivingWell Companion; helped employers support the well-being of their employees with Akira by TELUS Health; and offered frontline workers access to mental health resources through our Espri by TELUS Health app.
In 2020, we also directed our human and technological innovation toward improving access to a nutritious food supply that is safe, sustainable, expansive and connected. TELUS Agriculture, formed through the acquisition of eight trusted and experienced companies across North America and Europe, is supported by 1,200 skilled team members in 10 countries dedicated to digitally transforming, protecting and improving the global food system for people around the world.
Similarly, through our TELUS SmartHome Security and TELUS Secure Business solutions, we offered peace of mind by protecting our customers’ homes and businesses during lockdown periods and beyond. In 2020, TELUS welcomed approximately 100,000 security customers, expanding our client base to over 700,000 clients in three years. In addition, as young people spent more time online and in virtual classrooms, we amplified access to our online digital safety and citizenship program, TELUS Wise, and introduced digital support material for adults. By the close of 2020, we had reached more than 90,000 Canadians through TELUS Wise online or virtual workshops.
Progressing TELUS International TELUS International (TI) finalized the acquisition of Lionbridge AI, a global provider of data annotation services used in the development of artificial intelligence algorithms to train machine learning models. Lionbridge AI will help accelerate the digital transformation and strategic growth of TI by adding key capabilities and diversity to its suite of next-generation digital solutions. Importantly, in early 2021, TI undertook an initial public offering (IPO), establishing a market capitalization for TI of more than $10 billion and exceeding the $8 billion market cap of TELUS in 2000, when we first embarked on our national growth strategy. With total aggregate proceeds of $1.4 billion, the TI IPO was the largest technology IPO in the history of the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) and the fifth largest ever in Canadian capital markets. As a publicly traded company on both the TSX and the New York Stock Exchange, TI will continue elevating its world-leading customer experience and innovative technologies for its valued partners around the world. This historic milestone will enable TI to continue scaling its operations rapidly and profitably, creating significant value from strong organic growth and strategic acquisitions.
Delivering leading operational and financial results Our team’s dedication to our social purpose earned us the trust and loyalty of our customers and communities, while also driving industry-leading results. Facing unprecedented challenges, TELUS’ execution drove strong operational and financial results in 2020, including industry-leading customer growth in both our wireless and wireline portfolios.
TELUS ranked number one in the industry with 537,000 wireless customer additions, along with industry-leading subscriber growth across internet, TV and security of 157,000, 55,000, and 68,000, respectively. Consistent with our revised goal to deliver. 
Our diverse and inclusive team leveraged our culture of caring to support a healthier and more connected world in 2020.


8 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
CEO LETTER flat to slightly positive EBITDA growth in 2020, our consolidated operating revenues and EBITDA grew by 5.5 and 0.2 per cent, respectively, reflecting our strong resiliency and operational excellence, which helped to mitigate pandemic-related impacts. Notably, TELUS was the only national telecom provider to report positive EBITDA growth for the year. Similarly, we continued to drive strong free cash flow of $1.435 billion, up 54 per cent over 2019, and within the lower end of our original target range of $1.4 to $1.7 billion, set back in February 2020. Importantly, this free cash flow result was achieved while continuing to make astute capital investments in line with our original capex guidance for the year.
Keeping Indigenous communities safe. 
Like many communities, Haisla Nation in Northern British Columbia was in need of personal protective equipment to keep their citizens safe. As one of the many Indigenous communities connected to TELUS PureFibre, Haisla Nation reached out to TELUS for assistance. Our team members responded by collecting 500 masks, as well as hand sanitizer and gloves from our local supply, which they delivered to Haisla Nation to help keep the community safe throughout the health emergency.
Driving strong and leading wireless results Thanks to our team’s courage to innovate in leveraging the strength of our digital channels, coupled with our performance culture and the grit exemplified by our team in pivoting our retail sales personnel to outbound sales and service capabilities, we achieved industry-leading smartphone and total wireless net additions of 280,000 and 537,000, respectively. Our leading client growth was supported by our customer service excellence ethos, including our top ranked customer loyalty results across key product lines, owing to our team’s dedication to delivering premium client experiences over the world’s best broadband wireless network. We finished the year with blended churn at less than one per cent for the first time. Underlying this result, our postpaid churn of 0.77 per cent represents our seventh consecutive year of postpaid churn below one per cent, a feat unmatched by our national and global peers.
Our consistent focus on profitable, high-quality smartphonecentric subscriber growth was offset by impacts related to the pandemic, notably lower roaming revenues, driving a decline in network revenues of 1.5 per cent. This revenue decline was partially mitigated by an ongoing and intense focus on cost management. As a result, wireless EBITDA was down only one per cent and this result was industry-leading versus our national peers.
Generating historic wireline growth In wireline, TELUS once again delivered industry-leading revenue and EBITDA growth, as well as the best customer growth in our history. These results reflect the increased contributions from internet and third-wave data service growth, as well as: robust performance in TV customer additions; strong growth in our security customer base; and the continued reduction of voice line losses. TELUS’ wireline financials were driven by data revenue growth of 20 per cent, through a combination of higher revenues from our diverse portfolio of services and solutions, including: smart technology and security; resilient performance of TI; increased revenues from the hyper-scaling of our virtual care solutions; and growing scale of TELUS Agriculture.
Deriving shareholder value from our leadership in social capitalism Even in challenging times, TELUS has consistently returned significant capital to shareholders, while maintaining a robust balance sheet, making generational investments in advanced broadband technologies and advancing our social purpose through community investment and philanthropy. In the first quarter of 2020, after thoughtfully weighing the interests of our many stakeholders, alongside the countless initiatives we undertook in response to the health crisis, we decided to defer our scheduled dividend increase. Thanks to the extraordinary efforts of the TELUS team, in November, we were able to resume our multi-year dividend growth program with a seven per cent increase to our annualized dividend, reflecting our confidence in our strong and consistent performance and cash flow generation. This was our 19th dividend increase since the establishment of our first three-year program a decade ago. Notably, since 2004, we have returned over $19 billion to shareholders, including $14 billion in dividends, representing approximately $15 per share. Our team understands the importance of dividend income to the millions of citizens who


CEO LETTER 9 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT own TELUS shares, including middle-income Canadians and pensioners who rely on this form of income for their livelihood, as these investments help consumers and businesses thrive.
In a world where tax morality is not always apparent, since 2000, TELUS has paid approximately $46 billion in total tax and spectrum remittances to our federal, provincial and municipal governments. These funds support our roads and bridges, public education, healthcare, cultural pursuits and national defence.
Sustaining industry leadership relative to our global peers TELUS continues to deliver sustainable results for the benefit of the many stakeholders we serve. Since the beginning of 2000 through the end of January 2021, TELUS generated a total shareholder return of 578 per cent, 325 points higher than the return for the S&P/TSX Composite Index of 253 per cent and dramatically overshadowing the MSCI World Communication Services Index return of 45 per cent over the same period. Moreover, over the past one, three, five and 10 years, TELUS has surpassed the TSX return by three per cent, seven per cent, 14 per cent and 183 per cent, respectively.
Providing leadership for our stakeholders in 2021 and beyond Our leadership in customer service, network excellence, investor value creation and social capitalism differentiates TELUS from our peers, globally. As we look ahead toward a period of economic and social recovery, and inspired by the TELUS team’s strong performance in 2020, we have established new community giving, social impact and financial targets for the year.
Setting meaningful social, environmental and financial targets Socially, our 2021 targets include inspiring members of our TELUS family to engage in 1.25 million safe acts of giving, including contributing 175,000 days of volunteerism for the year. We will bridge digital divides for a cumulative 200,000 Canadians, by year-end, through continued expansion and amplification of our Connecting for Good programs. Collectively, our TELUS family will contribute over $85 million to charitable and community organizations and fundraise $3 million for the TELUS Friendly Future Foundation. We plan to disburse $20 million in early-stage financing to purpose-driven companies and entrepreneurs through our TELUS Pollinator Fund for Good.
In addition, having surpassed our 2020 goals in energy and greenhouse gas reduction in 2019, we will focus on procuring 100 per cent of our electricity requirements from renewable or low-emitting sources by 2025, enabling our operations to be net carbon neutral by 2030 and attaining a 50 per cent improvement in energy efficiency over 2020 levels by 2030.
Financially, our targets for 2021 include growth in revenue of up to 10 per cent and EBITDA of up to eight per cent, while we also expect robust free cash flow of approximately $1.5 billion.
Thanking you for your ongoing support In a year when the world needed a leader in social capitalism, our TELUS family was able to leverage our award-winning culture to deliver solutions, resources and care that made a meaningful difference in the lives of citizens, globally. In 2021, we will continue to bolster the robustness of our world-leading network, enable critical connections and enhance our globally admired culture, while supporting the most vulnerable among us. Together, let’s make the future friendly for everyone.
On behalf of the 100,000 TELUS team members and retirees, globally, thank you for your continued support.
Darren Entwistle Proud member of the TELUS team for more than two decades February 19, 2021. 
Our leadership in customer service, network excellence, investor value creation and social capitalism differentiates TELUS from our peers, globally.


10 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
CFO LETTER Amplifying our leadership in social capitalism and sustainability. 
In 2020, through our collective actions, the TELUS team demonstrated incredible resiliency and continued to deliver our diverse technology solutions that kept our customers connected and safe during an exceptional year — reinforcing our commitment to improving the lives of citizens in the communities where we live, work and serve.
Leading with strength and resiliency As the world grappled with the global health emergency, TELUS was well positioned to respond to the needs of our team members, customers, communities and investors thanks to our long-term strategy, diversified business and caring and collaborative culture. Our robust financial position, strengthened by our well-timed equity offering of $1.5 billion in February 2020, put us in the enviable position to quickly adjust our business to navigate the economic uncertainty caused by the pandemic.
In fact, thanks to our long-established Work Styles program, 95 per cent of our team members were able to quickly pivot to working remotely, and we immediately implemented industryleading virtual installation and repair processes, keeping our millions of customers safe as well. Our team sprang into action to support Canadians across the country and were able to give an amount equivalent to five per cent of our pre-tax profits – more than any other Canadian organization – in support of charities, community organizations and programs in Canada and around the world in 2020.
Furthermore, we continued our sustainable approach to growing our business and a clean economy by executing an additional two Power Purchase Agreements for renewable electricity in the province of Alberta and announcing our new climate-related goals, including net carbon neutrality for our operations by 2030 and procuring 100 per cent of our electricity requirements from renewable or low-emitting sources by 2025.
Our global leadership in social capitalism and sustainability was amplified by our placement on the Wall Street Journal’s Top 100 Sustainably Managed Companies as 29th in the world overall and 15th in Social Capital and on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the fifth consecutive year and on the North American Index for the 20th year in a row. TELUS is the only North American telecommunications company and one of only five Canadian companies recognized on this World Index. These accolades affirm our global leadership in social capitalism, innovation, and sustainability.
Positioned for future success In 2020, we expanded and enhanced our diverse portfolio of unique growth assets and our world-class broadband networks with several strategic investments that advanced and diversified our business towards high-growth, technology-focused verticals including acquisitions and enhancements in TELUS Health and TELUS International. Notably, our launch of TELUS Agriculture is an important area of opportunity that utilizes our extensive expertise in connectivity, software technology and data management to optimize the agri-business supply chain to protect and improve the global food system.
Creating sustainable value for our stakeholders Looking ahead, we will continue to advance our commitment to social capitalism, our proven growth strategy and financial strength to enable us to take action on our social purpose. 
Our team sprang into action to support Canadians across the country and were able to give an amount equivalent to five per cent of our pre-tax profits – more than any other Canadian organization – in support of charities, community organizations and programs in Canada and around the world in 2020.
CFO LETTER


GOVERNANCE priorities, protect our planet and deliver outstanding value for all our stakeholders in 2021 and beyond. The unwavering efforts and support of our engaged team have enabled us to set ambitious environmental and consolidated financial targets that will position us well as we prepare for a post-pandemic world.
Underpinned by our exceptional performance and commitment, our team will deliver outstanding customer experiences that deepen customer loyalty, ensure sustainability and the financial health of our organization to drive the economic growth and diversity that is key to Canada’s fiscal recovery. We remain focused on maintaining a strong balance sheet to ensure financial flexibility to further support sustainable and long-term value creation for all our stakeholders. Our commitment to social capitalism is the foundation on which we continue to build, ensuring our ongoing success in 2021 and beyond.
Best regards,
Doug French Executive Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer February 19, 2021 11 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT


12 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
OUR SOCIAL PURPOSE. 
Our business and social purpose. 
TELUS is a dynamic, world-leading communications technology company with $16 billion in annual revenue and 16 million customer connections spanning wireless, data, IP, voice, television, entertainment, video and security. We leverage our globallyleading technology to enable remarkable human outcomes.
Our long-standing commitment to putting our customers first fuels every aspect of our business, making us a distinct leader in customer service excellence and loyalty. TELUS Health is Canada’s leader in digital health technology, TELUS Agriculture provides innovative digital solutions throughout the agriculture value chain and TELUS International is a leading digital customer experience innovator that delivers next-generation AI and content management solutions for global brands.
Driven by our passionate social purpose to connect all Canadians for good, our deeply meaningful and enduring philosophy to give where we live has inspired our team members and retirees to contribute more than $820 million and 1.6 million days of service since 2000. This unprecedented generosity and unparalleled volunteerism have made TELUS the most giving company in the world.
Our business is based on delivering positive outcomes through technology in the following areas:
Mobility solutions. 
Keeping our customers connected. 
Business solutions. 
Helping businesses succeed. 
Healthcare technology. 
Improving the delivery of healthcare. 
Future friendly home services. 
Offering innovative broadband solutions. 
Business process and IT solutions. 
Extending our caring culture around the globe. 
Agriculture solutions. 
Emerging agriculture technology sector


13 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
OUR SOCIAL PURPOSE. 
New in 2020. 
An integral part of our social purpose is a persistent focus on driving sustainable business practices and making a meaningful societal impact. That focus extends to improving the production, traceability, quality, sustainability and safety of our food. In 2020, we launched TELUS Agriculture, which will digitally transform the agriculture industry with connected technology and help protect and improve the global food system.
TELUS Pollinator Fund for Good™ is an impact investment fund launched in 2020, that invests in purpose-driven, for-profit companies and startups that are making an impact solving today’s biggest challenges while also offering a financial return.
Our value chain. 
TELUS is focused on the long-term growth of our wireless and wireline businesses for our investors, customers, team members, suppliers and our communities. Our products and services enhance the lives of Canadians, support the success of our customers and contribute to the development of healthy communities and Canada’s digital economy.
TELUS employs over 78,000 people in Canada and internationally. We work together to embed sustainable business practices into our operations and manage our impacts across our value chain, as demonstrated in the graphic below.
Materials & equipment sourcing. 
Suppliers We award business to suppliers who demonstrate a strong commitment to sustainable development, and we work together to reduce our impacts.
Regulators Regulation can have a major impact on our operating environment and we manage such risks diligently. We advocate for our customers, communities and our business by highlighting the quality, reliability and affordability of our network in Canada.
Our operations. 
Investors We maintain an open and constructive dialogue with our investors through ongoing communication.
Our team members Our culture honours individuality, celebrates diversity and empowers our team to live the TELUS values.
Local communities We give where we live® by driving positive social outcomes and building stronger, healthier communities.
Indigenous communities We engage Indigenous communities by respecting the right to self-determination and other rights as outlined in the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.
Partners We work collaboratively across internal teams and with external partners to enhance our sustainability practices and performance within our operations globally.
Use of our products & services. 
Customers We work to innovate and unlock new opportunities to revolutionize the way our products and services improve lives and reduce environmental impacts for our customers.
Logistics partners Through collaboration with our technical team and logistics partners, we maintain programs that recycle, recover or reuse our products and equipment where feasible.
The environment. 
We work to preserve our natural environment throughout our operations.


OUR SOCIAL PURPOSE. 
Our priorities and materiality. 
We rely on our stakeholders to provide a diversity of input to inform our sustainability strategy, validate priorities and identify emerging issues. This insight helps us determine our priorities and targets that can have the greatest impact on our business and are most relevant across our value chain.
Directly engaging with internal and external stakeholders allows us to gather meaningful and timely feedback. See page 19 for examples of direct engagement in 2020.
Priorities We have defined and ranked our sustainability priorities as having either a high impact or a medium/low impact on our business. Furthermore, we concluded that our top three most impactful topics in 2020, were community, environment and health.1 We categorize our priorities and chapters in this report as follows: 1 This topic is not in alignment with the GRI Standards indicator 403 (occupational health and safety), it is referring to TELUS overall impact to health in community and employees.
• Social purpose priorities: areas where TELUS is working to provide positive business outcomes necessary to support and drive meaningful outcomes in the communities where we live, work and serve. These areas have a high impact on our business’ sustainability.
• Foundational priorities: areas that underpin our sustainable business strategy and structure, and demonstrate an overarching responsibility to our stakeholders. These areas have a medium/low impact on our business’ sustainability.
Social purpose priorities:
Giving back to communities. 
We believe that giving where we live helps build stronger, healthier communities and ensures that the most vulnerable among us don’t get left behind.
Caring for our planet. 
By actively working to focus on sustainable solutions across our business, we’re helping create a friendlier future for our children.
Innovating in healthcare. 
By applying innovative technologies to improve access to healthcare, we’re helping Canadians live healthier lives.
Empowering Canadians with connectivity. 
We’re helping ensure that all Canadians have equal access to the technology they need to thrive. in a digital world.
Foundational priorities:
Economic impacts. 
Contributing to the development of sustainable communities and Canada’s digital economy.
Our people and culture. 
Fostering inclusion by recognizing and celebrating every team member’s unique talents, voice and abilities.
Supply chain sustainability. 
Aligning our supply chain practices with our values of putting our customers and communities first.
Privacy, transparency and regulatory compliance. 
Earning and maintaining customers’ trust by employing rigorous privacy and security practices.
14 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT


15 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
OUR SOCIAL PURPOSE. 
Our future focus. 
As a social purpose-driven company, we work to set ambitious short-term and long-term goals that help drive performance and meet our stakeholder’s expectations. These goals also contribute to advancing progress towards the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs are transformative global targets that intend to shape policy development, organizational strategy and stakeholder engagement through 2030. We believe our one-, five- and 10 -year goals outlined below will have a positive impact on our social purpose priorities as well as contributing to SDGs 3, 4, 11, 13 and 17.
Social Purpose Priorities Goals. 
Target year Progress in 2020 Contribution to SDGs. 
Innovating in healthcare. 
Reach 137,500 primary and extended healthcare professionals with TELUS technology to connect members of the Canadian health ecosystem to drive improvements..
2025 111,200 primary and extended healthcare professionals are using TELUS technology to connect members of the Canadian health ecosystem.
Support 200,000 patient visits to our TELUS Health for Good mobile health clinics.
2025 The Health for Good® program has supported 50,034 patient visits to our mobile health clinics to date. We also launched seven new Health for Good mobile health clinics in 2020.
Caring for our planet 100% of our electricity requirements procured from renewable or low-emitting sources company-wide.
2025 In 2020, we achieved a 37% GHG emissions reduction over 2010 levels for our global operations. 
In 2020, we achieved a 17% energy consumption reduction over 2010 levels for our global operations.
Net carbon neutral operations company-wide.
2030. 
Reduce our energy intensity by 50% (2019 base year) company-wide.
2030. 
Giving back to our community. 
Reach 30,000 youth who are aging out of foster care and other marginalized Canadians with access to a free smartphone and a free or subsidized data plan.
2025 We connected 2,496 youth leaving foster care and other marginalized Canadians with our Mobility for Good® program in 2020, bringing our cumulative total to 6,349.
Empowering Canadians with connectivity. 
Reach 75,000 households with low- income families and people with disabilities with low cost, high speed connectivity.
2025 We provided 8,647 households with our Internet for Good® program in 2020, bringing our cumulative total to 19,657 households supported.
Engage and educate 700,000 youth, adults, parents and seniors through TELUS Wise® digital literacy workshops.
2025 We reached 90,446 Canadians through our TELUS Wise workshops in 2020, bringing our cumulative total of 346,133.


16 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
GOVERNANCE. 
Governance. 
At TELUS, we have a long-standing commitment to sound and effective corporate governance and disclosure practices. We continually review and enhance these practices to achieve higher standards and pursue greater transparency and integrity year after year. The TELUS team works together to deliver future friendly® services, and our values guide the way: • We embrace change and initiate opportunity • We have a passion for growth • We believe in spirited teamwork • We have the courage to innovate.
The figure below outlines our governance and oversight of sustainability integration and performance at TELUS.
Sustainability Governance Structure. 
Board and Corporate Governance Committee. 
CEO and Executive Team. 
Sustainability and Environment Team. 
National Sustainability Council Green Teams. 
The Board has overall responsibility for stewardship of the Company, which includes enterprise risk oversight. The Board exercises its risk oversight related to corporate social responsibility, environment and sustainability matters through the Corporate Governance Committee (CGC). The CGC also reviews this Sustainability Report and recommends its approval by the full Board.
Our climate-related risks and opportunities are identified by our Sustainability and Environmental Team and Enterprise Risk Management Teams, who then provide quarterly progress reports to the CGC. These reports also contain pertinent information regarding our environmental risks, compliance and liability.
The CEO and executive team are responsible for the approval of the overall strategic direction of our sustainability programs. Our Sustainability and Environment Team reports to our Executive Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer. This team oversees our sustainability strategy development and governance, integrates sustainability considerations across the business, implements training and awareness on sustainability and the environment, and supports our ISO 14001 certified Environmental Management System.
The National Sustainability Council is made up of a diverse group of approximately 20 team members across the business who dedicate up to 10 per cent of their time to support the integration of sustainability into our culture. In 2020, this included engaging


17 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT over 1,000 team members in our sustainability journey, hosting nine webinars, and creating an online community to connect team members who are passionate about the environment.
Our Green Team is a network of employees who advance environmental sustainability at TELUS and in our communities. Typically, Green Team members implement self-driven sustainability initiatives at their offices, but in response to our remote work environment, the focus for 2020 shifted to online educational events.
For more information on Board oversight and management of our climate-related risks and opportunities, see the ‘Governance’ section of our Climate-related Risks and Opportunities disclosure in our 2020 Annual Information Form. This disclosure is in alignment with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures.
Ownership Corporate governance systems aim to ensure that a company is managed in the interests of its stakeholders. To the knowledge of our Board of Directors, no governmental institution holds a total of five per cent or more of the company's voting rights and government institutions hold no golden shares. We are not a family-owned company and thus no family members, personally or through other companies or organizations, hold five per cent or more of total voting rights.
Board diversity We are committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive culture at TELUS and we first adopted a written Board diversity policy in 2013. As part of our annual review cycle, we periodically updated the policy over the ensuing years, with our most recent update in November 2020. The policy provides that by leveraging different perspectives and ideas, TELUS will enjoy the benefits of improved decision-making and greater productivity and innovation. The policy recognizes that diversity has many dimensions, which can include ethnicity, race, gender, physical ability, religion, sexual orientation, gender identification and age. Diversity can also extend to work experience, geographic background, socio-economic background and diversity of political thought. The objective of the policy is to ensure that the Board possesses the diverse qualifications, skills and expertise that are relevant to our business and that will allow the Board to fulfil its mandate.


18 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
GOVERNANCE. 
The November 2020 update to the policy included specific targets and confirmed the importance of seeking the following Board composition: • At least two directors who represent a visible minority or are Indigenous by the annual meeting in 2023 • Women and men each represent at least 33⅓ per cent of independent directors • Directors with extensive experience in geographic areas where TELUS has or anticipates significant business interests • Directors of various ages, and • Directors with differing backgrounds and experience.
In July, we signed the BlackNorth Initiative pledge, committing to specific actions and targets designed to end anti-Black systemic racism. The initiative includes a target of having a minimum of 3.5 per cent of executive and board positions held by Black leaders by 2025.
Please refer to our 2021 Information Circular for more information on our Board diversity.
Sustainability pay link We link organizational sustainability performance to compensation for all team members through our corporate scorecard, which affects the company-wide performance bonus structure. The social capitalism index within the scorecard contains metrics that measure our performance in reducing GHG emissions as well as various social impact measures. We regularly assess the metrics contained in our scorecard to continue to improve our environmental, social and governance performance.
Stakeholder engagement. 
We believe it is critical to foster relationships with our stakeholders and engage with them on an ongoing basis. By considering the expectations of those who we impact through our business and how they impact us, we support growth, innovation and the long-term success for our company. We are committed to integrating stakeholder engagement and related outcomes within our governance, strategic planning and decision-making processes across our business.
We have many stakeholders across our value chain, each with their own needs and expectations of TELUS, which includes the following: • Customers • Current and past team members • Shareholders • Local communities • Indigenous communities • Regulators • Partners • Suppliers • Academic institutions and NGOs • Investors & analysts.
One of our corporate priorities is to honour our customers, communities and social purpose by delivering our brand promise, the future is friendly®. Therefore, we prioritize engagement and feedback from customers, team members, and shareholders.
In addition to our numerous feedback mechanisms such as our Media Relations team, TELUS social media channels and the sustainability@telus.com inbox, we regularly engage directly with specific stakeholders through various activities. Depending on the purpose of the engagement, individual stakeholders are assessed and prioritized based on: • Impact of TELUS on the stakeholder • Stakeholder’s impact on TELUS • Stakeholder’s capacity to engage with TELUS; capacity building is supported as needed • Stakeholder’s willingness to engage with TELUS.
When selecting the method of engagement for the activity, a number of factors are considered: • Desired level of interaction, from passive monitoring to active collaboration • Stakeholder’s preferred language, format and cadence for connecting • Proactive mitigation of potential risks, such as participation fatigue or conflict between stakeholders.
Insights gained from our stakeholders are shared internally among relevant team members and communicated externally through platforms such as our website and this report. Below is a selection of stakeholder engagement activities that occurred in 2020.


19 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
GOVERNANCE 2020 select stakeholder engagement activities. 
Stakeholder Type of engagement Examples of feedback Our response. 
TELUS team members. 
Annual employee survey to identify the environmental issues that matter most to our team members.
The issues of most importance for team members are energy management, waste management and sustainable food.
Caring for our planet: page 30. 
Shareholders and analysts. 
One-on-one meetings, roadshows, conferences, discussions with the Executive Team, conference calls, press releases and media relations, and the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. See our Shareholder Engagement Policy for additional details.
We engaged the investment community on our long-term growth strategy, our focus on providing a superior customer experience, and our ongoing generational investments in our wireline and wireless broadband network. Additionally, the global pandemic has amplified investor interest in our digital leadership and capabilities, our engaged and agile workforce, and our highly differentiated asset mix.
Economic impacts: page 47. 
Customers Online survey conducted with a representative sample of Canadians to identify the sustainability issues that matter most to them.
Canadians indicated the most relevant and necessary issues for TELUS to address are product and equipment lifecycle management, waste management and natural resource conservation.
Caring for our planet: page 30. 
Suppliers Quarterly supplier performance management meetings as well as interviews with critical suppliers and strategic partners.
Suppliers collaborated with us to develop improvement plans to address network performance and reliability metrics. Quarterly meetings allowed us to socialize ideas and monitor progress, as well as gather their insight on our environmental performance.
Supply chain sustainability: page 62. 
Local communities. 
TELUS Community Boards, composed of local leaders, are engaged to make recommendations on the projects, places and people that need the TELUS Friendly Future Foundation’s support the most.
2020 recipients of the TELUS Friendly Future Foundation™ grants included Croquarium, an organization educating youth about healthy and responsible food consumption and La Tablée des Chefs, a charity that provided two million meals to people in need through Quebec’s food banks.
Giving back to our community: page 27. 
NGOs Active participation with NGO strategic partners through direct engagement, forum participation and events attendance.
Our GCNC peers provided insights on our approach to advancing the UN SDGs as well as our reporting and disclosure. They also provided feedback on our environmental and community investment and sponsorship programs.
Our business and social purpose: page 12


20 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
GOVERNANCE. 
Engaging with Indigenous Peoples. 
TELUS recognizes Aboriginal Title and Rights and Treaty Rights, as well as the unique culture and governance of individual Indigenous nations and communities. We are committed to engaging Indigenous Peoples in a manner that respects the rights set out in the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. We acknowledge Indigenous Peoples’ inherent right to self-governance and support processes and agreements that reflect this authority and the role of Indigenous Peoples as stewards of their lands.
We understand that meaningful engagement and reconciliation can only happen within the framework of inclusive dialogue, collaboration and partnership with Indigenous Peoples. This framework informs our actions, and our goal is to build longterm, meaningful and collaborative relationships with Indigenous government and customers.
Through our leading network, advanced technologies and innovative social solutions, we are supporting the goals of Indigenous Peoples, be it bridging divides in connectivity or addressing healthcare and education gaps as communicated in the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada: Calls to Action. We will continue to learn from our experiences listening to and working with Indigenous Peoples and organizations.
Read more on TELUS’ connectivity in Indigenous communities in our Indigenous Connectivity Report.
Indigenous Connectivity Report. 
British Columbia | 2020 Edition nchu7mut | One Heart, One Mind, One People “Together, we can accomplish many great successes.
Honouring each other’s gifts and working to honour each other.”
Míkw’achi7m | Marissa Nahanee


GOVERNANCE 21 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
Xwmə0kwəyəm: Adapting in the Footsteps of Their Ancestors. 
The xwmə0kwəyəm (Musqueam) peoples, whose territory occupies what is now Vancouver and surrounding areas, are a community of 1,500 people, and 70 per cent of community members live on a small portion of their territory, known as the Musqueam Indian Reserve.
Musqueam has persevered because of the wisdom and resiliency of their ancestors and, to this day, Musqueam put into practice their traditions and culture. When the COVID-19 pandemic hit, the Musqueam government knew they had to implement an emergency management operations process that respected their šxwtəhim (manners and customs) and sniw (teachings) to safeguard their people.
“We immediately identified Elders and other vulnerable members, setting up a mechanism for daily check-ins and allowing members to request delivery of essential supplies,” shared Devin Sharma, Musqueam’s Chief Administrative Officer. “Education was also provided on how to limit the virus’s spread and sanitization kits were shared with each home.”
Recognizing the need to support members, Musqueam implemented the ‘Musqueam Skip the Dishes' program, delivering regular food packages to all 250 homes on the reserve. TELUS partnered with Musqueam for the first delivery and worked with North American Produce to supply over 2,200 pounds of fresh produce.
Maintaining community connections while social distancing was crucial to Musqueam, and connectivity played a key role in achieving this goal. In addition to establishing an information line that members can call, Musqueam leadership leveraged technology to share weekly videos. Recognizing the importance of keeping spirits high, Musqueam even started their own weekly edition of “Some Real Good Rez News,” sharing inspiring stories about Musqueam and external partners coming together to support one other.
To learn more about Musqueam, visit musqueam.bc.ca.
Members of our Customer Service Delivery team from left: Ron Pong, Alex Nazar, David Derksen, Lonnie Joe, O'Neil Drysdale.


22 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
GOVERNANCE. 
Putting customers first. 
Our commitment to exceptional customer service is evidenced by our corporate priorities and our processes and actions. Whether we are helping in person, developing personal artificial intelligence (AI) assistants or building innovations like our 5G2 network, we deliver industry leading support when our customers need it the most.
2 The fifth generation cellular network technology that provides broadband access. The industry association 3GPP defines any system using “5G NR” (5G New Radio) software as “5G”, a definition that came into general use by late 2018.
Every year, the Commission for Complaints for Telecomtelevision Services (CCTS) issues a report providing statistics on complaints against the telecom industry. Impressively, all of TELUS’ major brands saw a strong decrease in complaints from the 2019 year-end report, with TELUS down 27.6 per cent, Koodo down nine per cent and Public Mobile down 41.4 per cent. TELUS continued to lead the industry with the fewest complaints among national carriers for the 10th year in a row and Koodo continued to lead with the fewest complaints amongst the national value brands for the 11th consecutive year. We are particularly proud of these results during a time when our customers have relied on our services more than ever.
Delivering on our brand promise The COVID-19 pandemic is having a profound impact on our customers and the way we deliver services. These CCTS results demonstrate that the many initiatives TELUS has undertaken during the pandemic have removed pain points for our customers and enabled consistent outstanding service.
Our focus on digital transformation, investment in reducing our average speed of answer, and simplification of our rate plans – such as our Peace of Mind™ plans – have built the foundation necessary to effectively navigate challenges, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. These priorities have set us up to continue providing amazing service for years to come.
We will not be satisfied until we are global leaders in customer service. We are committed to embracing feedback, reviewing every complaint and creating operational improvements to benefit all of our customers. See the Economic Impacts section on page 47 to learn how we are continuously identifying ways to make our mobile network and home solutions services even more reliable and expanding our network infrastructure.
Network uptime Keeping our customers connected – even when natural disasters strike – is a top priority. We work around the clock to maintain access to our wireless network capabilities when areas are affected by natural disasters and equip emergency shelters with TELUS PureFibre® internet. In 2020, our average interruption frequency, calculated as the total number of customer interruptions divided by the total number of customers served, was 0.20. Our average interruption duration, which is the sum of all interruptions of the total downtime of each interruption, multiplied by the number of customer accounts affected by each interruption, was 9.68 minutes of duration per customer, per outage. This data underpins the fact that TELUS’ network performance continues to be recognized as best in class from several independent network performance assessment organizations.
Ethics. 
We have an ethical responsibility as corporate citizens to make every decision with the highest degree of integrity. At TELUS, we value transparency and are committed to creating a culture of ethical behaviour with our team members, suppliers, vendors, community partners and Board of Directors.
Our Code of Ethics and Conduct addresses a wide range of critical topics, including, but not limited to: • Avoiding conflict of interest • Accepting gifts and benefits • Safeguarding our brand and reputation as well as our company’s assets • Information and intellectual property • Lawful competition, including anti-bribery and corruption • Protecting our customers’ data and privacy.
The code is formally reviewed and updated every second year unless other changes are required.
Each year, we require our team members and contractors to complete an online integrity training course, referred to as TELUS Integrity, that outlines key aspects of our Ethics, Respectful Workplace, Security and Privacy policies. One hundred per cent of employees completed the 2020 Integrity Attestation.3 3 Due to the uncertainties at the time resulting from the COVID 19 pandemic, many areas of our organization shifted priorities to better support our continued operations. For 2020, we conducted an Integrity Attestation in place of the annual Integrity Training.
TELUS EthicsLine Through the 24-hour TELUS EthicsLine (1-888-265-4112 or telus. ethicspoint.com), employees and external stakeholders can raise anonymous and confidential questions or file complaints related to accounting, internal controls or ethical issues.


23 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
In 2020, 693 contacts were made to the Ethics Office, with callers seeking advice on ethical situations or making complaints. This represents a 12 per cent increase over the 619 contacts made in 2019.
In 2020, there were 119 breaches of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, involving 123 employees, compared with 141 breaches involving 163 employees in 2019. There were no breaches relating to an officer or involving the integrity of financial disclosure. Corrective action was taken in each case of a breach, with some of the breaches resulting in discipline or dismissal of one or more employees.
Contacts to the ethics office increased in 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and associated conflicts of interest with working remotely, including from home. In addition, our team member headcount increased significantly.
Detailed reporting on all EthicsLine activity, including the nature of complaints or inquiries received, as well as breaches determined including type, location, business area and tenure of employee, is shared with the Audit Committee and Human Resources and Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.
For a more detailed breakdown of our ethics-related performance data, see our 2020 ESG Data Sheet.
Ethics office engagements. 
Type 2020 2019 2018 2017. 
Requests for advice 368 197 212 181. 
Ethical complaints 325 422 453 394. 
Total calls 693 619 665 575


24 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
GOVERNANCE. 
Anti-bribery and corruption The TELUS Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy applies to all team members, as well as the TELUS Board of Directors and whollyowned or controlled subsidiaries, as well as entities in which TELUS has a controlling interest.4 Updates to the Policy, which were approved by the TELUS Board, were implemented in 2019, to reflect legislative changes and international developments.
4 TELUS International operates under its own Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy that is based on the TELUS policy referenced here. Currently, TELUS International’s policy is not public.
Our anti-bribery and corruption compliance program also includes team member training and awareness, and due diligence compliance activities that reflect best practices for comparable Canadian companies.
Our Data & Trust Office did not receive any reported violations of the Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy in 2020, and no business partner contracts were terminated, nor employees dismissed or disciplined, with respect to instances of corruption.
Risk management and business continuity. 
Effective risk management supports our foundation for sustainability leadership. We define business risk as the degree of exposure associated with the achievement of key strategic objectives in relation to the effectiveness and efficiency of operations; reliability and integrity of financial reporting; compliance with laws and regulations, policies procedures and contracts; and, safeguarding of assets within an ethical organizational culture.
Our enterprise-wide risk and control assessment practices solicit and incorporate the expertise and insight of team members from all areas and levels of the organization, including our Board. We continuously improve enterprise risk governance by: • Assessing perceptions of risk resiliency, risk appetite and risk management integration in key decision-making processes • Assigning executive-level owners for managing and mitigating key risks, including climate-related risks • Integrating information across our strategic planning process and enterprise-wide risk assessment activities.
More information on our risk assessment and mitigation process is available in section 10 (Risks and risk management) of our 2020 Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A).
Business continuity management We recognize the potential of threats that could disrupt our ability to meet our obligations to customers, our team members, the community and our investors. We believe that a robust and agile business continuity program is a cornerstone for delivering on our customer first commitment, providing reliable products and services, and supporting our communities.
Our business continuity management program has the following key program elements: • A governance structure with executive sponsorship, oversight at the Board level and engagement at all levels of the organization • A risk-based program and planning framework based on industry-leading practices • Ongoing monitoring and management of threats and projected impacts, and the application of mitigation and preparedness measures to respond to them • A comprehensive emergency management framework with a consistent approach for all types and levels of threat • A culture of resilience that drives business continuity leadership, ownership and continuous improvement, including training and awareness, annual exercises and embedding resilience into organizational processes.
Responding to incidents We have a proven track record of effectively managing the impacts of disruptive incidents, such as wildfires, floods and severe weather events. We have demonstrated support for our communities, customers and team members through these challenges by implementing programs such as: • Providing free voice, text and data services, and waiving monthly payments and late payment charges • Replacing damaged customer equipment at no cost and providing loaner mobile phones • Developing special contact centre queues to address specific needs of affected customers • Providing comfort kits and backpacks for affected community members • Initiating and managing text-to-contribute campaigns • Matching TELUS team member contributions through our Team TELUS Cares website.
Our commitment to a robust and agile business continuity program has consistently been recognized by premier international business continuity organizations. In 2020, we won the Business Continuity Institute Americas “Most Effective Recovery of the Year” award for our response to the 2019 spring wildfires in Alberta.


25 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
GOVERNANCE. 
Supporting communities in need In collaboration with all levels of government and critical infrastructure partners, we support emergency preparedness initiatives by participating in risk assessments, exercises and other planning initiatives. We support emergency operations by providing critical services and equipment and aligning our response and recovery efforts with government and community priorities. Our support has included:: • Emergency mobile phones for first responders and officials • Telecom services at community reception and welcome centres • Comfort items for evacuated residents • Support for community re-entry after major evacuations.
We are also a founding member of the Canadian Telecommunications Resiliency Working Group (CTRWG), a national group of telecommunications carriers and federal government representatives dedicated to building resilience. During an emergency, we work closely with the CTRWG to share information, resources and response capability.
Protecting our team members and communities in response to COVID-19. 
In January 2020, our Corporate Business Continuity Office (CBCO) began actively monitoring the coronavirus outbreak. In anticipation of the first cases in Canada, the CBCO convened a Coronavirus Working Group to begin preemptive planning.
Shortly thereafter, our Emergency Management Operating Committee (EMOC), the highest level of crisis management in our organization, was activated with full participation from all corporate and operational teams to strategically manage the looming pandemic.
To ensure that the EMOC follows leading practice in dealing with an infectious disease, our Medical Advisory Council (MAC), composed of health professionals, was established to consult on COVID-19 pandemic issues. The MAC provides guidance on health and safety topics to enable our teams to work safely, and protect team members and customers.
With the safety and wellbeing of team members, customers and communities in mind, a number of actions were taken to ensure seamless delivery of our essential services, such as: • Approximately 1,500 retail and kiosk team members went through training to support contact centre operations and were subsequently set up to work remotely • Within one month, 99 per cent of our Canadian 3,100 customer support agents were working remotely • Field technicians adopted virtual installation/repair procedures to limit direct customer contact.
The CBCO, in partnership with teams across TELUS and with guidance from the MAC, crafted the TELUS Infectious Disease Playbook. The document was shared with over 500,000 business customers and provides strategic corporate-level governance and guidance, policy and responses to multiple scenarios.
The CBCO continues to support the business in looking ahead and forecasting our recovery efforts to position ourselves to respond effectively and with agility – while keeping the safety of team members and customers top of mind.


Social purpose priorities


27 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES: GIVING BACK TO OUR COMMUNITY. 
Giving back to our community. 
The culture of caring we have created over two decades is underpinned by our collective belief in the power of giving where we live. The TELUS family has given $1.3 billion since 2000 to build stronger, healthier, more sustainable communities. From connecting families in need with high-speed internet, to delivering medical care to vulnerable citizens living on the streets, we remain committed to ensuring underserved Canadians have access to the tools and resources needed to stay connected.
Governance and oversight TELUS has a strong foundation of social purpose governance that supports our work to align and integrate our community investment and business strategies. This governance includes developing and implementing effective strategies, assessing and managing risks, setting targets and objectives as well as reporting on our progress and performance. Our governance begins at the highest level of our company, with our Board and Corporate Governance Committee.
Initiatives to give back. 
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we pivoted all of our philanthropic funding channels in 2020 to focus on health initiatives and supporting charities on the front line of the public health crisis. TELUS, our team members and retirees contributed $85 million to charitable and community organizations and volunteered 1.25 million hours. of service, including contributing 1.2 million virtual and socially distanced safe acts of giving. Our commitment to giving back to our communities and volunteering is structured through a number of programs, such as our TELUS Days of Giving®, and initiatives for our business as well as our team members work of thousands of charitable organizations across the country.
TELUS Match provides our team members and retirees an opportunity to do more for their communities. When members of the TELUS family make a donation to a registered charity, we do too – matching team member and retiree donations, up to $2,500 per person, per year.
In 2020, we raised $535,000 for the TELUS Friendly Future Foundation in support of COVID-19 pandemic relief in communities across Canada through the sales of more than 79,000 TELUS Critter Masks. In addition, we have donated more than 210,000 TELUS Critter Masks to community organizations and to keep our most vulnerable citizens safe.
Our Team TELUS Cares programs represent a collection of community engagement initiatives that are making our world a better place. Through these programs we motivate, mobilize and reward employees and retirees who make positive change in the communities where we live and work.
TELUS Community Ambassadors TELUS Community Ambassadors, our network of current and retired team member volunteers, provide a critical connection between TELUS and our communities. Over 5,000 Ambassadors based in 23 clubs across Canada work collectively to respond to the needs of their communities. In 2020, our Ambassadors: • Donated 271,879 care items • Fundraised $60,000 for local causes • Filled over 13,000 Kits for Kids with school supplies • Prepared more than 10,500 comfort kits with basic toiletries and comfort items for homeless and displaced families.


28 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
Connecting for Good. 
At TELUS, we understand the power of technology as an equalizer. Through our Connecting for Good® programs, we are leveraging our technology to help marginalized Canadians stay connected to the people, information and opportunities that matter most in our increasingly digital society.
Health for Good Health for Good helps connect marginalized and homeless Canadians to our healthcare system through specially equipped mobile health clinics operating nationwide in communities where frontline care is urgently needed. Our mobile clinics are equipped with TELUS wireless connectivity, TELUS Health electronic medical records and powered by additional TELUS technology solutions to assist the onboard care team in their work as they provide primary and mental health care as well as other support to those that need it most.
In 2020, the program supported over 28,000 interventions, including over 12,000 COVID-19 assessments and tests. Thanks to support from our partners, there are ongoing efforts to integrate our program patients into the broader healthcare and social support systems. We will be launching three additional mobile health clinics in 2021, with the goal of supporting 25,000 patient visits each year across all mobile health clinics.
Mobility for Good Mobility for Good provides youth transitioning out of foster care and low-income seniors with free smartphones and free or subsidized data plans, enabling them to stay connected to support networks, social services and more. Over 6,300 youth and seniors are enrolled in the program.
Internet for Good Internet for Good offers over 400,000 low-income families and people living with disabilities in TELUS’ broadband internet footprint access to subsidized high-speed internet and a lowcost computer to help them participate safely in our digital world. Since the program began in 2016, almost 20,000 households in B.C., Alberta and Quebec have been connected.
Tech for Good Tech for Good™ empowers Canadians with disabilities to independently use their mobile devices. The program offers specialized training, tools and, in some cases, financial assistance to individuals who require assistive technology. Program participants also receive a monthly discount on Simple Share and Peace of Mind TELUS Mobility Smartphone plans.


29 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES: GIVING BACK TO OUR COMMUNITY. 
TELUS Friendly Future Foundation. 
The Foundation provides grants to charities across Canada that enable youth to reach their full potential. In 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Foundation revised its focus to support charities providing front line health care and other critical support. Together with the 13 TELUS Canadian Community Boards, it provided $8.9 million in support of nearly 600 projects, creating a brighter future for our most vulnerable community members across Canada. For more information, visit the Foundation’s website.
The TELUS Community Boards are based on an innovative funding model that puts philanthropic decision-making in the hands of local leaders who know their communities best. The. 
Boards provide recommendations on the allocations of funds from the Foundation for grants to grassroots Canadian charities that support disadvantaged youth and other vulnerable populations. Preference is given to projects that also demonstrate tangible technological or social innovation. Since 2005, the Boards have contributed $81 million and supported over 6,700 projects.
The five TELUS International Community Boards – in Bulgaria, Romania, Guatemala, El Salvador and the Philippines – contributed over $600,000 in support of 71 projects in their respective areas in 2020.
Our impact. 
Understanding the broad impact of our community investments is a critical component of understanding the success and reach of the program. We work with the London Benchmarking Group and use their methodology to measure our impact. Our community investments can be categorized as follows:
Community investment ($ millions) 2020 2019 2018 2017. 
Philanthropic investment 5.2 16.7 7.9 8.6. 
Social investment 65.1 23.1 130.01 20.0. 
Commercial initiatives 12.9 12.5 10.3 14.4. 
Value of employee giving 1.9 2.2 2.1 2.4. 
Total2 85.1 54.5 150.3 45.4 1 In 2018, the TELUS Friendly Future Foundation™ was launched with a $118 million donation from TELUS. 2 Within our total community contributions, we include value-in-kind (VIK). A VIK contribution is a non-cash contribution of a good or a service. We calculate VIK contributions based on the costs of provision of services and products, and estimates of labour costs and other inputs. Methodologies may rely on certain estimations that have inherent limitations and uncertainties due to the various nature of the VIK contribution being delivered.
Community investment by type ($ millions) 2020 2019 2018 2017. 
Education 61.2 23.9 23.2 20.2. 
Environment 2.6 1.4 4.1 2.3. 
Health 21.3 29.2 23.0 22.9. 
Other – – 100.0 –
Total 85.1 54.5 150.3 45.4


30 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES: CARING FOR OUR PLANET. 
Caring for our planet. 
Whether it is with simple steps taken at work or home by our team members, or ambitious, organization-wide initiatives, we are committed to caring for our planet through our choices and actions. We consider our impact on the environment in every decision we make, and building a sustainability focused business is an important aspect of our overall corporate strategy.
Our efforts to improve our environmental performance are aimed at addressing climate change by reducing energy usage and the resulting GHG emissions; using resources sustainably while minimizing the waste generated by our operations; continually improving our handling of electronic and hazardous waste; steadily reducing water consumption and implementing strict environmental management and compliance programs.
Our commitments in action5 5 All commitments, with the exception of those in the waste category, are applicable for our global operations.
Focus areas Targets and commitments Progress in 20206. 
Energy Procure 100% of our electricity requirements from renewable or low-emitting7 sources by 2025. 
Reduce our energy intensity by 50% from 2019 levels by 2030 2.9% year-over-year increase in percentage of electricity purchased from renewable or non-emitting sources 10.6% year-over-year reduction in energy intensity. 
Greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs)
Enable our operations to become net carbon neutral by 2030. 
Science Based Targets: • Reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 46% from 2019 levels by 2030 • Reduce our Scope 3 emissions from employee travel and commuting by 46% from 2019 levels by 2030 • Reduce the Scope 3 emission intensity from purchased goods, capital goods and the use of TELUS sold products by 55% from 2019 levels by 2030 16% year-over-year reduction in GHG emissions in 2020, and 37% reduction since 2010. 
Submitted our three new targets and their alignment to the Paris Agreement to the Science Based Target initiative for approval in 20218. 
Waste A 5% annual reduction in total materials discarded to landfill. 
A 65% diversion9 of waste from our real estate assets by 2025 and 80% diversion by 2030. 
An 85% diversion of waste from reverse logistics by 2025 and 95% diversion by 2030 25% reduction in total materials discarded. 
Launched a circular economy assessment to identify opportunities to make our business more circular 69% diversion of waste from our real estate assets and reverse logistics. 
Water Reduce our company-wide water consumption from 2019 levels by 50% by 2030 25% year-over-year reduction in water consumption. 
Environmental management. 
Continue to be a global leader in environmental excellence and create ongoing opportunities for improvements. 
In 2020, there were no major nonconformities identified in our audits and the number of minor non-conformities was less than in previous years 6 Results in 2020 were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and the majority of our team members working remotely, including from home. 7 Low emitting sources of electricity include electricity generated from solar, wind, geothermal, nuclear and hydroelectric and other renewable sources. 8 At time of publishing, these targets are in the validation process through the Science Based Targets Initiative. See our website for updates. 9 Diversion is defined as the percentage of materials re-used, recycled, or composted.


31 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES: SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES: CARING FOR OUR PLANET. 
Governance and oversight Our Board and Corporate Governance Committee (CGC) play a vital part in ensuring that we meet our environmental commitments. The CGC oversees our approach to corporate social responsibility and environmental matters, including assessing the impacts from climate change. Their oversight contributes to developing and implementing effective strategies, evaluating and managing risks, setting targets and objectives, and reporting our progress toward meeting our environmental goals.
Our management team regularly assesses and manages risks in various ways, including: • Certifying our Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System (EMS) to the ISO 14001:2015 standard • Reporting on a social capitalism index in our corporate scorecard, which incorporates environmental and social metrics, linking our sustainability performance to team member pay • Conducting formal and informal materiality assessments to help validate our priorities and identify emerging issues • Implementing data and scenario analysis processes for topics such as climate change impacts.
Climate action. 
We understand the global challenge posed by climate change. As a signatory to the UNGC, we are committed to advancing our impact on the SDGs, including SDG 13: climate action.
One of the most significant challenges we face is building our business and expanding our product and service solutions while also decreasing our environmental footprint. We recognize that future deployment of 5G technology and growing customer demand for data and connectivity will increase energy requirements. We are working to develop further solutions for reducing energy where feasible.
We support the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which has published a set of recommendations for the disclosure of the material financial impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities to help stakeholders better understand how organizations are addressing climate change. Our disclosure aligned with these recommendations can be found in our 2020 Annual Information Form.


32 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES: CARING FOR OUR PLANET. 
Roadmap to carbon neutrality As a global leader in environmental performance, we have demonstrated what a committed organization can do to address climate change. Over the past decade, we have realized significant absolute reductions in energy use and GHG emissions in our operations as a result of many programs and initiatives focused on our buildings and network. More recently, we have been investing in renewable energy in the form of Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) that enables the development of new solar and wind power facilities, adding clean energy to the electricity grid and generating Renewable Energy Certificates for our use. We will continue to demonstrate leadership in our authentic and transparent approach to climate action in the coming years.
In addition to setting transformative energy and GHG emission reduction targets, many of our product and service offerings – including TELUS Agriculture solutions and our virtual healthcare offerings such as Babylon by TELUS Health – also support a lowcarbon future. By building a broadband network that enables our customers to live and work where they choose, and by offering products that allow customers to connect virtually, we help customers reduce their carbon footprint by limiting travel and making their interactions more efficient.
WE HAVE A SET TARGET TO ACHIEVE NET ZERO CARBON BY 2030 2010–2019 A decade of significant energy and emission reductions 15% reduction in domestic energy consumption. 
Reduced domestic GHG emissions by 30% 20,308 MWh of renewable solar energy generated and purchased 566 GWh saved by improving our energy efficiency, including turndown of redundant equipment, network optimization and rightsizing of real estate space. 
Signed two Power Purchase Agreements for 86 MW of renewable electricity capacity 2020 Managing energy while meeting the COVID-19 challenge 5.7% decrease in company-wide energy consumption. 
New business travel and employee commuting targets. 
Rapid transformation of working remotely (95% of employees at the end of 2020) 22,021 eMWh renewable energy production. 
Two additional Power Purchase Agreements signed for 67 MW of renewable electricity capacity 16% reduction year- over-year in absolute GHG emissions 78% reduction yearover-year in CO2e from business travel 2021–2030 Looking forward to achieving Net Zero. 
Set science-based targets in 2021, which will be achieved by 2030. 
Expand the scope of measurement for Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions for new acquisitions as they arise. 
Develop a vehicle fleet electrification strategy to reduce fuel-related GHG emissions. 
Evaluate new science and technologies and their potential to reduce GHG emissions. 
Adapt to changing legislation and regulations in operational jurisdictions. 
Reach net carbon neutrality by 2030. 
NET ZERO future goals and targets ✓
✓ ✓
✓ ✓ ✓
✓ ✓
✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Ź Ź
Ź Ź
Ź Ź
✓past achievements Ź


33 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES: CARING FOR OUR PLANET. 
Energy consumption and GHG emissions. 
Our energy footprint consists of direct energy and indirect energy used for our business that is within our operational control, both in Canada and internationally. These include owned and leased real estate properties, cell tower sites, fleet vehicles, and remote generator fuel.
In 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we successfully enabled and transitioned 95 per cent of our team members to work remotely. This allowed us to put a number of our largest office buildings and other non-network real estate assets into hibernation mode, resulting in a significant 5.2 per cent decrease in energy consumption. We understand that this event-driven decrease will not be sustainable as we eventually look forward to a post-pandemic environment, but 2020 did provide valuable lessons about working remotely while still meeting our service and performance goals.
In 2020 our Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) for our data centers was 1.308 and total power consumption was 76,126 MWh. Our data centres were powered by renewable solar generated electricity in Alberta (29% of total data center power) and low emitting electricity in Quebec, Ontario and British Columbia.
Renewable Energy We negotiated two additional PPAs in 2020, which will add 67 MW of solar power generating capacity to Alberta’s electricity grid in 2022. In total, we have signed four PPAs in Alberta: three for 82 MW of solar powered generating capacity and one for 71 MW of wind powered generating capacity. We will own the renewable energy credits generated by these facilities, which we will realize annually to help achieve our carbon neutrality and renewable electricity goals. Investing in renewable energy not only helps us grow our core business sustainably by powering our network from cleaner energy sources, it provides positive financial impacts for our organization.
4 PPAs signed in Alberta in total 82 MW solar powered generating capacity signed for in three PPAs in Alberta 71 MW wind powered generating capacity signed for in one PPA in Alberta. 
Company-wide energy consumption1 1 Data scope does not include acquisitions made in 2020, or previous partial-year acquisitions data.
Company-wide consumption (eMWh) 2020 2019 2018 2017. 
Scope 1 236,142 277,077 295,161 317,788. 
Scope 2 825,657 848,801 872,146 904,865. 
Company-wide energy consumption 1,061,799 1,125,878 1,167,307 1,222,653. 
Renewable energy production2 22,021 20,308 22,407 30,000 2 2018-20 renewable energy from Brooks, Alberta Solar facility Renewable Energy Certificates (REC), 2017 from market REC purchases.
Company-wide energy intensity1 1 Data scope does not include acquisitions made in 2020, or previous partial-year acquisitions data.
Intensity (eMWh)2 20203 2019 2018 2017 eMWh per $M revenue 68.50 76.06 78.10 87.98 eMWh per customer connection 0.066 0.074 0.087 0.094 2 eMWh includes domestic scope 1 and 2 energy sources for 2019 and prior. 3 eMWh includes company-wide scope 1 and 2 energy sources


34 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES: CARING FOR OUR PLANET. 
Science based targets To further ensure the success and the impact of our sustainability efforts, we have adopted the guidelines established by the Science Based Targets (SBT) initiative.10 Achieving our SBTs will help us meet obligations to limit global warming below two degrees Celsius and pursue efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C, to align with the required emissions reductions outlined in the Paris Agreement. We have committed to the following: 10 At time of publishing, these targets are in the validation process through the Science Based Targets Initiative. See our website for updates.
• Reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 46 per cent from 2019 levels by 2030 • Reduce our Scope 3 emissions from employee travel and commuting by 46 per cent from 2019 levels by 2030 • Reduce the Scope 3 emission intensity from purchased goods, capital goods and the use of TELUS sold products by 55 per cent from 2019 levels by 2030.
Our energy and GHG consumption is categorized according to the three scopes established by the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.
SCOPE 1 direct energy sources such as fuel combustion that include natural gas, gasoline, diesel, propane and heating oil. 
SCOPE 2 indirect energy sources such as electricity used to power our network and offices. 
SCOPE 3 other indirect emissions sources such as air travel, employee commuting, purchased goods, capital goods and the use of TELUS sold products. 
In 2020, we reduced our absolute GHG emissions by 15.8 per cent compared to 2019. The reductions can be attributed to energy efficiency programs, temporary office vacancies related to the COVID-19 pandemic and a significant reduction in emissions from the Alberta electricity grid. We further reduced our net impact by 4.3 per cent with the realization of EcoLogo certified Renewable Energy Credits generated by the Brooks Solar facility in Alberta.
Company-wide GHG emissions (tCO2e)1 1 Data scope does not include acquisitions made in 2020, or previous partial-year acquisitions data.
Company-wide GHG emissions 2020 2019 2018 20172. 
Scope 1 53,002 61,393 65,039 68,931. 
Scope 2 214,590 256,497 264,070 290,618. 
Total company-wide GHG emissions 267,592 317,890 329,109 359,549. 
Renewable energy reduction impact2 13,742 15,311 17,119 23,700. 
Net GHG emissions 253,850 302,579 311,990 335,849 2 2018-2020 renewable energy from Brooks, Alberta Solar Project Renewable Energy Certificates (REC), 2017 from market REC’s purchases.
In 2020, our GHG emission intensity improved by approximately 11.4 per cent per $M revenue by approximately 5.6 per cent per customer connection year over year.
Company-wide GHG emissions intensity tCO2e1 20203 2019 2018 20172. 
GHG tCO2e per $M revenue 17.26 19.47 21.04 24.95. 
GHG tCO2e per customer connection 0.017 0.018 0.022 0.026. 
GHG tCO2e per per terabyte of data 0.015 – – – 1 tCO2e includes domestic scope 1 and 2 energy sources for 2019 and prior. The scope does not include acquisitions made in 2020, or previous partial-year acquisitions data. 2 2017 GHG intensity reflects 2017 adjusted revenue of $13.4 million (was $13.3 million). 3 tCO2e includes company-wide scope 1 and 2 energy sources


35 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES: CARING FOR OUR PLANET. 
Scope 3 Emissions As with many of our energy metrics for 2020, our Scope 3 emissions linked to employee business travel and employee commuting were dramatically impacted by the pandemic. Business travel was significantly curtailed for the year, as was employee commuting when 95 per cent of our staff transitioned to working remotely. All emission reductions must be considered in the context of COVID-19. Overall passenger kilometres travelled by air by our Canadian employees decreased by 80 per cent in 2020, compared to 2019 resulting in air travel emissions of 2,026 tonnes CO2e.
For a more detailed breakdown of our energy and GHG performance data, see our ESG Data Sheet.
Responsible resource use. 
We recognize that the world’s resources are finite and that we cannot compromise the ability of future generations to meet their needs. At TELUS, we are not only working to recycle and compost our waste, but also to create closed-loop material flows, reduce unnecessary paper and packaging, and re-think the materials used in our industry.
Responsible resource use includes material use and waste management, paper, e-waste, equipment recovery and water. The common thread that runs through them all is our commitment to managing materials in a sustainable way and our long-term vision to become a zero-waste company.
MANAGING RESOURCES AND WASTE IN 2020. 
REAL ESTATE ASSETS leased and owned properties. 
REVERSE LOGISTICS managing the end of life of products and devices that are returned or recovered from our customers. 
Material use and management 49% of waste diverted from real estate assets 86% of was diverted from reverse logistics. 
Paper and packaging 39% reduction in paper and packaging 38,511 trees planted. 
Electronic and hazardous waste 22% reduction in total materials discarded 21% reduction in solid hazardous waste 11% reduction in e-waste 110,796 mobile devices recycled. 
Long-term vision: zero waste


36 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES: CARING FOR OUR PLANET. 
The majority of resources used by TELUS are associated either with operations conducted at our real estate assets, properties we lease or own, or with reverse logistics, which involves receiving goods back from the end-user so that they can be re-used, re-purposed, recycled or disposed of sustainably.
In 2020, we launched a circular economy model assessment to identify opportunities within our operations that would support regenerative resource use while also helping to break the link between business growth and the consumption of finite resources. The assessment was an essential first step, and we will be expanding our focus on circular economy projects in 2021.
In 2020, we reduced waste from our real estate assets in Canada, including owned and leased property, by over 22 per cent. We also increased our total diversion rate from all sources from 67.9 per cent in 2019 to 69.3 per cent in 2020. This decrease in real estate waste is partly due to the shift in team members working remotely in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, our continued expansion of recycling services, and our increased focus on waste reduction at the source, also helped increase recycling and composting and decrease total waste.
Waste and recycling by source in Canada (metric tonnes)1 1 To provide timely reporting, we moved our reporting year up one full quarter beginning in 2019. The 2020 data above covers October 1, 2019 to September 30, 2020.
Source Reverse logistics Owned properties Leased properties Overall 2020. 
Recycled 5,327 1,506 938 7,771. 
Landfill 877 2,118 445 3,439. 
Total 6,204 3,623 1,383 11,210. 
Diversion % 86 42 68 69. 
Electronic waste in Canada. 
Waste type 2020 2019 2018 2017. 
E-waste (metric tonnes) excluding mobile devices 1,521 1,701 2,006 2,283. 
Mobile devices (units) 110,7961 226,894 298,529 210,292 1 Decline in mobile device recycling in 2020 was a result of fewer customers opting for in-store returns and exchanges during the COVID-19 pandemic health mandates. While TELUS continues to offer a pre-paid mail-in return program, more customers have opted for third party recycling and to keep their used devices.
Hazardous waste Our domestic operations generate small quantities of hazardous waste, such as aerosol cans, batteries, and motor oil. In 2020, we continued to see a decline in hazardous waste as a result of actively seeking non-hazardous product alternatives. This successful decline in total hazardous waste occurred at the same time we installed new collection points at over 50 sites in B.C. and Alberta, setting the stage for continued improvements in the future.
Hazardous waste in Canada. 
Waste type 2020 2019 2018 2017. 
Solid hazardous waste from our facilities (kg) 474 600 29,485 1,561. 
Liquid hazardous waste from our facilities (litres) 319 218 5 3,023. 
Batteries from network equipment and fleet operations (mt) 136 52 241 628


37 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES: CARING FOR OUR PLANET. 
Paper and packaging In 2020, TELUS introduced a Sustainable Paper and Packaging Policy aligned with our goal to reduce paper and packaging consumption by 10 per cent on a year-over-year basis while also securing 100 per cent of our purchased copy paper from tree-free sources. Through e-billing, digital marketing and packaging optimization, we have been able to minimize our consumption significantly, with a 40 per cent11 reduction between 2019 and 2020.
11 This result was partially impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
For the paper and packaging that we do consume, we offset the use by planting trees in collaboration with Tree Canada. In 2020, we planted these trees in the Tootinaowaziibeeng First Nation territory in Manitoba. Planting trees in our communities helps to capture carbon, create natural forest restoration, provide oxygen and enhance wildlife habitat for generations to come.
Trees for paper program1,2,3 1 Since 2018, data reported includes both paper distributed and packaging from products provided to residential consumers in all Canadian provinces. 2 We plant trees based on our previous year’s total paper and packaging consumed in that year. 3 We are only reporting on paper purchased by employees tracked in the primary human resources management system.
Resource 2020 2019 2018. 
Copy paper (metric tonnes) 15 38 48. 
Paper and packaging (metric tonnes)4 541 893 1,547. 
Trees planted 38,511 53,741 54,252 4 2019 paper and packaging data updated to correct for reporting error, previously disclosed as 997 metric tonnes.
Water. 
Responsible water use is important for us to achieve our environmental sustainability goals. Our water sources include municipal water supplies or other water utilities and our primary uses of water are for heating and cooling systems and for drinking water in our office spaces. Therefore, we are engaged with municipal water stewardship efforts, which are aligned with local environmental regulations in areas that we operate. In addition, our ISO 14001 EMS positions us as a global leader in environmental excellence, including water stewardship (read more on pages 38-39).
We do not currently consume large amounts of water in waterstressed areas, although we continue to actively monitor our water-related impacts through regular monthly preventative maintenance building inspections and call-in reporting systems for on-demand repair of newly discovered leaks or other water issues. Our decrease in water usage in comparison to 2019, as demonstrated in the table below, is a result of multiple water efficiency projects, including the installation of newer and more efficient HVAC equipment.
In 2020, after a comprehensive review of our water usage data, we set a target to reduce our water consumption intensity, per terabyte of data traffic on our network, by 50 per cent from 2019 levels by 2030. This goal was developed to align with our energy efficiency goals as well as local regulatory guidelines, and grow our business in a sustainable manner.
Water consumption1 1 From 2019-2020, data reported covers our residential market and all Canadian provinces, or previous partial-year acquisitions data.
Company-wide consumption 2020 2019 2018 2017. 
Domestic consumption (million litres) 375 494 563 647. 
International consumption (million litres) 176 243 153 178. 
Total water consumption (million litres) 551 737 761 825


38 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES:
TELUS team members in Edmonton will move into a new LEED-certified, green workspace in 2021. The building features an array of solar panels integrated into the property’s overall design, which produce approximately 89,000 kWh annually, offsetting 77 per cent of the site’s electric energy use. Additional green features include daylight harvesting systems, to offset the amount of electric lighting needed, and dual EV chargers, in preparation for a future green Digital Home Team fleet.
Environmental management system. 
Our EMS provides the foundation for all of our environmental sustainability initiatives. In 2020, TELUS completed the required external audits to certify our EMS to the updated ISO 14001:2015 standard. Maintaining this ISO standard positions us as a global leader in environmental excellence and creates ongoing opportunities for improvements to our environmental management processes.
Auditing and site assessments To affirm our compliance with regulatory requirements, TELUS standards, and to maintain our ISO 14001 certification, we conduct regular site assessments and audits of our operations. In 2020, there were no major non-conformities identified in our audits and the number of minor non-conformities was less than in previous years. Audit findings and areas for improvement continue to be related to site housekeeping, equipment maintenance schedules, signage, and document control.
In addition to the formal audits, more than 2,000 facility assessments are conducted by network technicians on an annual basis.
Training Environmental training provided to our employees and contractors is a key component of our EMS. Training covers topics such as spills and releases, response and reporting, and the transportation and disposal of waste. In 2020, employees completed 2,118 training courses with environmental themes and 2,127 courses were completed in 2019.
Compliance We present quarterly reports to the Corporate Governance Committee of our Board on issues resulting in written warnings or investigations by regulatory authorities. In 2020, one incident was reported: on December 3, 2020, TELUS received a warning letter from the B.C. Ministry of Environment for the late submission of our electronic equipment stewardship plan. We have now clarified the renewal requirements with the Ministry to prevent further issues.


39 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES: CARING FOR OUR PLANET. 
Spills and releases In addition to reporting externally, we require that all spills (liquids) and releases (gases), regardless of the quantity, must be reported internally to our 24/7 spill line, where team members get expert advice on site management and reporting to external agencies.
The majority – over 85 per cent – of our recorded spill incidents are halocarbon releases from air conditioning equipment used to cool our facilities and network equipment. Halocarbon releases are most significantly impacted by hot weather events, which result in additional system stress. We continue to seek out opportunities to use more efficient cooling technologies.
We define Category A spills and releases as both reportable and serious and set a target of zero for this category. In 2020, we had no Category A spills.
In 2020, we had a significant increase in the volume of liquid spilled. This increase was due primarily to a large process water release from a water treatment system at a TELUS facility in Burnaby, B.C. Due to a pump failure and backup system failure, the water was released to the storm sewer system. The released process water met the storm sewer criteria, so did not result in any significant environmental impact.
Canadian spills breakdown. 
Spills1 2020 2019 2018 2017. 
Reportable 27 39 32 25. 
Not reportable2 174 163 204 197. 
Total spills and releases 201 202 236 222. 
Approximate volume (L)3 52,807 2,125 486 6,814. 
Approximate weight (kg)4 1,317 1,791 1,698 1,360. 
Category A – reportable, serious5 0 3 2 1. 
Category B – reportable, significant5 43 46 51 37. 
Category C – not reportable, insignificant5 158 153 183 184 1 Spill amounts reflect best estimates based on investigation results. 2 Spills and releases below regulatory thresholds do not require reporting and are termed “not reportable." The definition of "reportable" varies by jurisdiction. 3 Volume in litres includes liquid petroleum hydrocarbons, battery acid, glycol and other. 4 Weight in kilograms includes refrigerants (Chlorofluorocarbons) and fire suppression agents (Halon and FM-200). 5 Halocarbon – Category A > 100 kg, Category B = 10 - 100 kg, and Category C < 10 kg; Hydrocarbon – Category A > 1000 L or enters water, Category B = 100 - 1000 L, and Category C < 100 L; Glycol – Category A > 500 L, Category B = 5 - 500 L, and Category C < 5 L; Battery acid – Category A > 50 L, Category B = 5 - 50 L, and Category C < 5 L.
Addressing contamination By using a risk matrix based on the Canadian Council of Ministers of the Environment guidance manual, TELUS prioritizes the management of our contaminated sites. Our contaminated sites have resulted from historical fuel spills at remote sites that used diesel generators to power equipment. Our annual target is to complete remediation work at five sites and we met this goal in 2020. A ‘completed site’ is one where known contamination has been remediated according to the appropriate regulatory guidelines for soil and/or groundwater.
Radio frequency emissions Innovation, Science and Economic Development (ISED) Canada is responsible for establishing safe limits for signal levels of radio devices. We are confident the wireless devices we sell, as well as our cellular antennas and other associated devices, comply with all applicable Canadian and U.S. government safety standards. For further information on radio frequency emissions, see page 119 of our 2020 Annual Report.
Exclusive jurisdiction over the placement of cellular antennas is set out under ISED requirements in circular CPC-2-0-03 for telecommunication carriers. If a new antenna location is required, we follow the Default Public Consultation Process when reviewing locations unless the land use authority has their own recommended protocol.


40 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES: INNOVATION IN HEALTHCARE. 
Innovation in healthcare. 
Our investment and innovation through our TELUS Health portfolio exemplifies our social purpose by addressing one of Canada’s most pressing challenges – access to healthcare and service efficiency. For over a decade, TELUS Health has been working with health authorities, community partners and stakeholders to build a more sustainable healthcare system leveraging the power of technology.
Over $3 billion invested by TELUS in the Canadian healthcare ecosystem in the last 10 years to stimulate digital innovation 111,000+ clinicians, pharmacists and allied healthcare professionals connected to the TELUS Health ecosystem. 
Governance and oversight We believe that technology can help deliver even better and more sustainable health experiences for Canadians. From connecting doctors and other healthcare professionals with one another and their patients, to harnessing information and making prevention and wellness more accessible to everyone, we are committed to providing reliable healthcare products and services that empower patients and their providers.
Stakeholders in the healthcare industry agree there is a need for increased patient satisfaction, experience and safety, as well as improved clinical access and decreased costs. That is why our TELUS Health Team has identified five key areas where health information and our communications technology can enhance healthcare delivery: • Access to healthcare • Chronic disease management • Medication errors and non-compliance • Personal health records • Performance improvement.
Access to healthcare. 
Virtual Care is often the term used interchangeably with telemedicine, telehealth or virtual healthcare and is the process of providing 24/7 real-time access to medical professionals via a mobile device – by voice, text or video.
In addition to diagnosing and treating common primary care ailments, virtual care also provides access to a broader range of non-clinical care services, such as mental health support, chronic disease management, and even specialist referrals and prescriptions. TELUS Health offers virtual care solutions to connect patients with healthcare providers through the convenience of their smartphone. Some examples of these solutions include: • Babylon by TELUS Health is a comprehensive app and service that supports both physical and mental health needs, with virtual access to a doctor, mental health therapist or dietitian in addition to preventative health tools such as Symptom Checker, Monitor and Healthcheck.
• TELUS Health virtual care such as Akira by TELUS Health, and the recent acquisition of EQ Care, offer on-demand virtual care service to make healthcare more accessible for employees and their families. Available via smartphone or computer, in French and English, it provides 24/7 direct access to medical consults with clinicians through secure text and video chat.
• Home Health Monitoring (HHM) programs across Canada allow patients to securely send daily biometrics to their care teams, who can intervene right away. HHM programs support patient tracking and help manage early response to avoid a decline in patient health and reduce acute care visits.


41 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES: INNOVATION IN HEALTHCARE • TELUS EMR Virtual Visit is an encrypted, EMR-integrated solution that enables virtual encounters by phone, text or video. Clinicians can access health information and update patient health records using standard EMR workflows - preserving continuity of care and documentation.
• LivingWell Companion™ is a personal medical alert service providing our elderly loved ones with access to 24/7 emergency support at the push of a button or through an optional fall detection feature.
• TELUS Health Care Centres: TELUS Health acquired the Medisys Health Group in 2018, and in 2020, Medisys Health Group (Copeman Healthcare Centre, Medisys and Horizon) were reunited under the same name to become TELUS Health Care Centre, a connected network of 16 best-in-class medical centres, delivering highly personalized care, enhanced patient experiences and easy access to a broad range of services for Canadians.
Turning the corner on mental health during COVID-19 and beyond. 
The COVID-19 pandemic has taken a significant toll on the health and wellbeing of Canadians. TELUS recognizes that with the added health, social and economic stressors, the mental health of our nation has rapidly declined. Thankfully, technology, such as on-demand virtual care services, are making healthcare more accessible for Canadians.
Through Babylon by TELUS Health, Canadians can access physicians, mental health counsellors, dietitians, and identify risk factors or make positive lifestyle choices with our digital tools. Through this easy-to-use app, consumers are better able to get the support they need from the privacy of their own home, reducing barriers to accessing high-quality mental health care.
Akira by TELUS Health is also available anytime and anywhere, nationally. Akira offers mental health support by text, making it easier to initiate difficult conversations. Clinicians follow up proactively with patients, building valuable relationships and helping to identify mental health issues that may be presented as physical. Additionally, in-house psychiatrists work with our nurse practitioners to provide patients more in-depth mental health support and customized treatments plans, bridging the gap to in-person psychiatric help.
Espri by TELUS Health is a mobile app that enables organizations to support members with targeted mental health resources. Launched in 2020, the app provides mental wellness content and resources, helps frontline teams build resilience, and also provides resources to family and loved ones.
Throughout the pandemic, the TELUS Healthy Living Network has been providing Optik TV customers with informative and compelling content related to COVID-19 pandemic prevention and well-being, as well as helping customers stay active and healthy at home with leading fitness, yoga, nutrition and mental health content.


SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES: INNOVATION IN HEALTHCARE. 
Chronic disease management. 
We believe that the most effective chronic disease management programs are patient-centric, encourage self-management, are built on evidence-based outcomes and supported with leading tools and technology. Our solutions offer patients, doctors and pharmacists increased collaboration and efficiency in addition to improve patient outcomes. Our solutions include: • Collaborative health records (CHR): a modern cloud-based digital health platform that combines a comprehensive suite of patient engagement tools seamlessly built into an intuitive and customizable health record solution • Electronic medical records (EMR): capturing, organizing and displaying patient data in a customizable, user-friendly way – aiding in identifying those at risk and those requiring routine screening • Personal health records (PHR): sharing data securely between patients and healthcare professionals and empowering patients to manage their own health • Home Health monitoring: allowing physicians to closely monitor patients – no matter where they are • OACIS clinical information system: providing a consolidated patient history leveraging existing health infrastructure in a way that gives clinicians access to the most timely and accurate data.
Medication errors and non-compliance. 
Adverse drug effects, prescription errors and patients not taking their medication are widespread issues across Canada. Additionally, the rising cost of drugs is putting financial pressure on patients, employers and governments.
To help optimize drug selection for patients, enable easy identification of drug interactions and ensure appropriate therapy management, TELUS offers several clinical decision support tools to deliver better patient outcomes, including: • Drug information system: connecting pharmacists, physicians and other authorized healthcare professionals to view and contribute to patient medication profiles • TELUS health integration platform: securely connecting pharmacists, physicians and other healthcare professionals to a patient’s electronic health record, empowering teams with the accurate, complete, up-to-date information they need to provide comprehensive care • TELUS pharma space: a tool allowing patients to view the drugs entered in their profile, request prescription refills, and track prescription status • PharmaConnect™: a patient communication service integrating with the Kroll™ pharmacy management system. Patients can consult their medication file and order refills virtually.
42 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT


43 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES: INNOVATION IN HEALTHCARE. 
Relieving pressure on our healthcare system during COVID-19. 
Regions across Canada have experienced increased strain on their healthcare capacity due to the COVID-19 pandemic. One of the biggest challenges continues to be the logistics of proactively monitoring large volumes of COVID-19 cases and contacts, managing increased hospitalizations and ensuring people seek care for their conditions when required.
In response to the pandemic, TELUS Health has been working to deploy our home health monitoring (TELUS HHM) platform across the country to urgently equip healthcare professionals with vital digital tools to provide supportive care to Canadians. TELUS HHM gives clinicians the ability to care for patients remotely while they remain in the comfort of their own homes. With TELUS HHM, patients send vital signs and self-evaluations to clinicians over a secure internet connection. Clinicians watch for early signs of worsening symptoms, allowing interventions to be delivered in a timely way.
TELUS HHM enables clinicians to remotely manage, track and care for people diagnosed with or exposed to COVID-19, relieving pressure from hospitals, driving efficiencies and decreasing exposure to the virus. In 2020, we were proud to expand from a single province-wide TELUS HHM deployment (B.C.) to three additional provinces (Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Nova Scotia), shorten our deployment times to two weeks, and manage a 100 per cent increase in active patients being monitored, closing 2020 with over 14,000 patients on the platform.
Personal health records. 
TELUS provides online health tools to help individuals maintain healthier lifestyles, understand their risks for chronic disease and other conditions, modify their behavior to mitigate the risks, and if they have an illness, effectively manage it. Our EMR, PHR and RPM solutions offer patients, doctors and pharmacists increased collaboration and efficiency in addition to better patient outcomes.
PHRs are user-friendly, online solutions that give patients a way to manage their own health information, providing a selfcontrolled snapshot of an individual’s health record. Canadians can also use PHRs in emergencies, when travelling or when working with physicians unfamiliar with their health histories.
Performance improvement. 
In Canada, the majority of healthcare experiences happen at the community level through isolated patient encounters with health professionals who operate separately from one another. Our mission is for patients and care teams to have access to the right healthcare information, anytime, anywhere.
TELUS Health Exchange is a standards-based, secure, vendoragnostic platform that enables clinicians to communicate across primary care settings to help improve care delivery. Leveraging an array of integrated tools from TELUS and our partners, the exchange integrates directly into the health professional’s practice management system to help improve care delivery through services such as PrescribeIT (ePrescribing service), clinical messaging through MedDialog®, and online appointment booking for patients.


SOCIAL PURPOSE PRIORITIES: EMPOWERING CANADIANS WITH CONNECTIVITY. 
Empowering Canadians with connectivity. 
Driven by our passionate social purpose to connect all Canadians for good, we are committed to leveraging our world-leading technology and compassion to drive positive social change and enable remarkable human outcomes.
TELUS Wise. 
TELUS Wise, now in its eighth year, is a digital literacy education program that empowers Canadians to stay safe in our digital world. Endorsed by the Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police and offered free-of-charge, the program provides workshops and online resources related to protecting our online security, privacy and reputation, rising above cyberbullying, and using technology responsibly.
In 2020, and in response to the pandemic, we quickly responded, shifting the delivery of TELUS Wise workshops, from a largely, face-to-face approach to online or through live, virtuallydelivered workshops. Since inception, over 346,000 Canadians of all ages have participated in our free workshops, including:
TELUS Wise footprint: helps elementary school children learn how to be good digital citizens and keep their digital footprint clean.
TELUS Wise impact: engages middle school and junior high students in a conversation around cyberbullying, helping them explore and understand different options for safe and appropriate ways of intervening when they witness cruel behaviour online.
TELUS Wise in control: engages middle school and junior high students in a discussion about cyberbullying, identity theft, protecting and positively growing their online reputation and more.
TELUS Wise happiness: engages high school students in a conversation about building and maintaining a healthy relationship with technology.
TELUS Wise adults: • Part 1: empowering you to stay safe in our digital world covers topics such as living in a digital society, as well as internet, smartphone and social media safety • Part 2: supporting youth in our digital world focuses on topics and tips related to screen time, gaming, sexting, cyberbullying and more.
TELUS Wise seniors: engages Canadian seniors in a discussion about how to participate safely in our growing digital society.
44 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT


45 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
Empowering youth through virtual offerings. 
In 2020, we worked collaboratively with many of our partners in communities across Canada to provide virtual programming for youth promoting both TELUS Wise workshops and educational content.
Virtual Summer Camps powered by TELUS As an extension of our partnerships with TELUS World of Science Edmonton and TELUS Spark, we created Virtual Summer Camps, reaching 1,450 campers across Alberta and B.C. The science centres also produced 27 hours of virtual camp content that was provided to TELUS to put on Optik TV. By working with each centre and their respective community partners, we were able to provide 100 vulnerable youth with scholarships to the camps and their own laptops for access.
Canadian Football League (CFL): In partnership with the B.C. Lions, Calgary Stampeders, Edmonton Football Team, Hamilton Tiger-Cats and Ottawa REDBLACKS, TELUS created #EndBullying All-Stars. This grassroots community program promotes the importance of online safety while bringing TELUS Wise workshops led by CFL players to local schools. In 2020, we offered these programs virtually, reaching 20,273 youth across Canada.
Hockey Canada (The Code): The Code is an extension of TELUS Wise and is designed specifically for the hockey community. The program offers customized, free digitized educational tools, resources and workshops to help hockey fans, players and families safely and respectfully navigate digital spaces. The Code is also a pledge that every player, fan, coach, parent, official, volunteer or administrator can be a good digital citizen and a great teammate. Since 2018, Hockey Canada and TELUS have shared The Code with more than 730,000 players and coaches across 30,000 minor league hockey teams in Canada.
Watch Code Ambassadors and Team Canada members Jordan Eberle, Quinton Byfield, Jill Saulnier and Dom Cozzolino speak to the importance of this program.


Our foundational priorities


47 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: ECONOMIC IMPACT. 
Economic impact. 
We leverage our globally leading technology to enable remarkable human outcomes and deliver value to all of our stakeholders. We are focused on the long-term growth of our wireless and wireline businesses to connect Canadians for good. Our products and services enhance the lives of our customers and contribute to the development of sustainable communities and Canada’s digital economy.
$2.9 billion paid and remitted in taxes to all levels of government $1.5 billion returned in dividends to our investors $2.8 billion invested in capital expenditures. 
In 2020, despite an unprecedented operating environment, TELUS reported solid financial and operating results. Our performance continues to be driven by our commitment to social capitalism, an exceptional team member culture focused on customer service excellence and significant ongoing transformational investments to further advance our growth strategy. Through our investments, we have achieved strong positive outcomes, including the following: • Strengthened our competitive position by advancing our network leadership position while delivering the best customer experience, helping us attract new customers and retain existing customers • Enabled the thoughtful return of capital to TELUS shareholders through our multi-year dividend growth program, supporting the lives of many citizens, including pensioners who rely on this steady form of income for their retirement, while concurrently supporting citizens through the pandemic • Enhanced our ability to better respond to the needs of other stakeholders through community investment, including contributing more than $820 million to charitable and community organizations in 2020.
See our 2020 Annual Report for more information on our financial performance.
Investor engagement Investors are interested in understanding how TELUS plans to execute on its long-term growth strategy, while maintaining our unwavering focus on providing a superior customer experience. In 2020, the global pandemic amplified investor interest in gaining a better understanding of our engaged workforce, our digital leadership, and our highly differentiated asset mix. We employed a range of virtual activities where we leveraged technology to engage with our investors. These included: numerous one-on-one meetings, roadshows, industry-specific conferences, quarterly conference calls, press releases and media relations initiatives, and our Annual General Meeting of shareholders.
Our Shareholder Engagement Policy outlines how the Board may communicate with investors, how investors may communicate with the Board and which topics are appropriate for the Board to address. Furthermore, our say-on-pay policy sets out the Board’s objectives and policies with respect to say on pay and disclosure pertaining to executive compensation.


48 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: ECONOMIC IMPACT. 
Paying taxes In 2020, TELUS paid and remitted on behalf of our employees more than $2.9 billion to federal, provincial, local and international governments, which support services for Canadians and citizens wherever TELUS operates. TELUS follows a Tax Strategy that has been approved by the TELUS Board of Directors and is consistent with our overarching Code of Ethics and Conduct and. 
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy. The Tax Strategy outlines how we manage our tax risk in a manner that is ethical, transparent and collaborative while complying with all applicable tax laws and regulations.
For a detailed breakdown of taxes paid in 2020, see our 2020 ESG Data Sheet.
Economic value distributed ($ millions) 2020 2019 2018 2017. 
Goods and services purchased 6,268 6,070 6,368 5,904. 
Employee benefits expense 3,701 3,034 2,896 2,594. 
Capital expenditures, excluding spectrum licenses 2,775 2,906 2,914 3,094. 
Interest paid 740 714 608 539. 
Income taxes paid, net 430 644 197 191. 
Dividends declared 1,520 1,358 1,253 1,167. 
Cash payments for spectrum licenses – 942 1 –
Total 15,434 15,668 14,237 13,489. 
Research and development Since 2000, we have invested almost $200 billion in network infrastructure, spectrum and operations to enhance the coverage, speed and reliability of our globally-leading network and connect our customers across Canada. 
We deliver on our brand promise by offering customers the best technology and an amazing experience. To do this, we collaborate with many partners on research and development (R&D) opportunities that will enhance our product and service offering. In 2020, TELUS invested $553 million in R&D, $23 million more than in 2019.
The increase in 2020 R&D spending is indicative of TELUS’ strategic investments designed to advance next-generation technologies, enhance innovation and help drive digital development across industries in a new age of hyperconnectedness, unleashing the full potential of 5G for Canadians.
R&D spend. 
Estimated investment in R&D 2020 2019 2018 2017 ($ millions) 553 530 307 240. 
Network investments. 
We create critical connections through our transformational network investments. Our LTE wireless technology covers 99 per cent of the Canadian population and our LTE Advanced technology covers 97 per cent of the population. Additionally, as of the end of 2020, our recently launched 5G network connects over 10.5 million Canadians, representing more than 28 per cent of the population. Canadians enjoy one of the most advanced and accessible wireless networks in the world, which held up extremely well under the demands of the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2021, we will continue to expand and enhance our 5G network to provide more residents and businesses with access to our 5G network.


49 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
In 2020, we were globally recognized by industry-leading experts for our network performance, including: • Fastest mobile download speeds in the world by U.K.-based Opensignal • Top spot in four of the five national categories in Canada’sbased Tutela’s report on State of Mobile Networks • Highest in overall network quality in Ontario six years in a row and highest in overall network quality in Eastern Canada forthe third time by U.S.-based J.D. Power • Fastest Mobile Network in Canada and Best Mobile Coverage from U.S.-based Ookla, marking our sixth consecutive win and third consecutive win for Best Mobile Coverage • Fastest Internet Service Provider in Canada by U.S.-based PCMag • Ranked #1 for video streaming on the Netflix Speed Index.
Fibre footprint. 
In 2020, 2.5 million households and businesses were connected to our PureFibre network spanning 137 communities across B.C., Alberta, and Eastern Quebec. This provides a distinct advantage to these communities by stimulating employment and economic growth. It also allows healthcare providers, educators and technology companies to reimagine how they deliver services and develop entirely new solutions. In addition, our wireline broadband investments are laying the foundation for our 5G wireless network.
Capital expenditures. 
In 2020, TELUS capital expenditures were approximately $2.8 billion or 18 per cent of operating revenues. This reflects our continued focus on investing in: • Wireless and wireline broadband network infrastructure expansion and upgrades, including 5G • Connecting more homes and businesses to high-speed internet services, including PureFibre • Network and systems resiliency and reliability, providing faster internet speeds and greater capacity • Strengthening TELUS home and business smart technology, including security • Enhancing our innovative healthcare and agriculture technology solutions.
Since 2000, TELUS has invested approximately $44 billion in technology and communications infrastructure across Canada to significantly enhance the connectivity of Canadians. TELUS is making the world a better place by investing internationally to provide customers a greater breadth of business services.
Capital expenditures by region1 1 Totals may differ due to rounding.
($ millions) 2020 2019 2018 2017. 
British Columbia 883 1,061 1,069 1,168. 
Alberta 911 889 911 893. 
Saskatchewan 7 7 2 3. 
Manitoba 19 14 29 47. 
Ontario 548 534 490 483. 
Quebec 303 315 333 449. 
Atlantic Canada 7 4 7 2. 
Outside Canada 98 83 71 50. 
Total capital expenditures 2,775 2,906 2,912 3,095. 
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: ECONOMIC IMPACT


50 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE. 
Our people and culture. 
Our team members are the foundation of our business and drive our success as a globally-leading telecommunications company.
Achieved 87% in our annual domestic Pulsecheck engagement survey, making TELUS the most engaged organization globally12 12 At 87 per cent engaged, TELUS Domestic is amongst the top ten per cent of organizations in Canada and the most engaged organization globally compared to organizations of its size and composition. The Pulsecheck survey is administered by Kincentric (formerly part of Aon).
15th year named as one of Association for Talent Development’s BEST organizations and named Best of the BEST organization for the sixth year 11th time. 
Recognized as one of. 
Canada’s Best Diversity Employers. 
Gold level certification achieved through Women in Governance and certification through the LGBT Canadian Corporate Index. 
Governance and oversight Our People and Culture Team works to provide an environment for our team members that is safe, empowering and engaging and our culture is anchored in our TELUS leadership values.
Our objective is to attract, develop and retain talented employees in Canada and internationally. We achieve this by investing in our people throughout their careers, and by offering diverse and inclusive employment prospects and development opportunities. We are proud of the globally admired culture our team has built together.
For a complete overview of our team member demographics and performance data, please refer to our 2020 ESG Data Sheet.
Employee experience. 
Each year, we invite our team members to share their ideas, comments and feedback on how we can improve their day-to-day experience through our annual engagement survey. Through listening to our team members and leveraging the practice of fair process13 we address feedback and implement solutions to further enhance our customers’ and team members’ experience.
13 Aims to engage all team members in collaborative decision making, leveraging their knowledge and encouraging a business ownership culture.
Pulsecheck engagement results % 2020 2019 2018 2017. 
Overall engagement – TELUS Domestic 87 84 85 84. 
Overall engagement – TELUS International1, 2 81 85 81 83 1 TELUS International data includes Bulgaria, Romania, the Philippines, Central America and U.S. operations for 2017-2020. TELUS International China is also included in 2019 and 2020 data. 2 2020 TELUS International (TI) includes the acquisition of Competence Call Centre (CCC), which had an engagement score of 52% in the first year of participation in Pulsecheck. TI’s engagement score excluding CCC is 86%, which is 1% higher than 2019.


51 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
Work Styles To support our leading culture of collaboration and spirited teamwork, our Work Styles® program provides our team members with flexible work options, both in and out of the office, supporting the balance between work and personal life. In 2020, this long-standing approach to flexible work options provided a foundation which enabled our in-office teams to rapidly adopt an at-home work style in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. With top priorities of team member health and safety and putting our customers first in mind, many teams and partners came together quickly to leverage our forward-thinking approach and deploy connectivity and communication technologies to our team members outside of the office.
Through having the courage to innovate, embracing change and spirited teamwork, our efforts in 2020 resulted in over 95 per cent of team members globally working remotely and delivering improved customer service metrics across our portfolio. Additionally, many of our business customers and partners consulted TELUS on flexible work solutions to transform their culture and increase work-life balance. We will continue to offer Work Styles® solutions as part of our many social purpose offerings.
Recognition Team member and peer-to-peer recognition, when delivered effectively, is a powerful tool that supports a high-performance culture, reinforces corporate values, celebrates organizational goals and engages team members.
Through our Bravo platform, TELUS encourages team members to recognize colleagues who live the TELUS values, go above and beyond, and positively affect our customers, business and team, by awarding them Bravo points that can be redeemed for gifts or gift cards meaningful to the individual. In addition to Bravo, we have Enterprise Recognition Awards, which include: • Customers First Champion: recognizing frontline team members for extraordinary customer service • Leadership Values in Practice: celebrating role models who demonstrate our TELUS Values and in doing so, created exceptional outcomes for our business, customer, team or community • Legend Award: a career achievement award honouring team members with 20+ years who have significantly contributed to building our TELUS legacy • CHLOE Award: recognizing women and champions of diversity at TELUS • President’s Club: distinguishing top performing team members in sales who demonstrate our TELUS values and meet aspirational performance targets.


52 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
Family friendly policies In addition to our Work Styles program, we provide a number of other family friendly resources to support our team members. These resources include: • Employee and Family Assistance Program (EFAP): is a confidential and voluntary service that provides counselling services on topics such as family care, emergency home care services, rehabilitation and home support programs, adoption and multiple birth services and palliative care • Kids & Company: helps parents find guaranteed placement in high quality private daycare centres across Canada as well as offers support for team members who need help caring for their aging parents (currently available in Calgary and Toronto) • Well-being account: is a flexible benefits account designed to support team members in a personalized way, such as tuition fees for university, college or continuing education, child and elder-care expenses, and baby safety equipment • Maternity leave: we provide a maternity leave top-up for regular full-time and regular part-time team members for the first 16 weeks of maternity leave.
New employee hires and turnover. 
Our world leading culture helps us to attract and retain top talent in highly competitive labour markets in Canada and internationally. To address this challenge, we rely on our strong referral culture that continues to make a difference through attracting the best candidates. In addition, our sourcing strategy is to proactively attract and engage prospective candidates and retain existing team members. In 2020, we hired 4,618 team members in Canada as well as 19,359 team members internationally.
We observed significant reductions in turnover in most regions in 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. A key factor driving voluntary turnover lower was our signature Work Styles® program. Our turnover rate was 12 per cent for our Canadian operations and 38 per cent internationally. Compared to our Canadian operations, our relatively higher turnover rates internationally are due to the business process outsourcing contact centre nature of TELUS International roles. Employee turnover is closely monitored by senior leaders and the voluntary turnover for our frontline team members is lower than industry standards/averages in the locations where we operate.
Talent development. 
We believe that an effective performance development experience which provides team members the direction, coaching and feedback they need to achieve their personal and professional goals, is critical to achieving our business goals.
Partnering with their leader, all team members set quarterly goals, linked to business priorities and scorecards, and complete a year-end assessment. This program creates a continuous coaching culture with regular check-ins and real-time feedback from multiple sources, including peers and stakeholders, to ensure all team members receive the feedback they need to achieve their business and personal goals.
In 2020, our newly evolved performance development experience was recognized with a gold award by the Brandon Hall Group for “Best Advance in Performance Management.”
TELUS MBA program To cultivate leaders with a distinctive mindset, we have partnered with the University of Victoria’s Peter B. Gustavson School of Business to create the TELUS MBA program. Partial content in each course is tailored to leadership and strategy issues specific to TELUS and the telecom industry. In 2020, 20 team members officially graduated as part of our second cohort and our third cohort of 20 team members completed the halfway point of their studies.
Leadership Now (LNow) program Our LNow program focuses on the development of TELUS’ existing and future high-potential leaders who have the desire and capability to move into roles of greater responsibility. In 2020, 191 individuals graduated from the program. The program delivers a comprehensive virtual curriculum that moves participants beyond leadership fundamentals to cultivate their strategic leadership capabilities and business knowledge.
Career development We encourage and empower our team members to also leverage experiential, formal and social learning opportunities. Internally, team members have access to a library of learning and development opportunities, including information on how to create meaningful career action plans, available through our selfserve tool.
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE


53 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE. 
TELUS Domestic average training hours1, 2, 3 1 Only includes training completed by December 31, 2020 and was captured and recorded internally, as of January 31, 2021. This number does not include business unit specific training, external training or educational pursuits paid for by the company and other ad hoc training sessions that employees may engage in.
2 Averages are based on domestic employees on December 31, 2020, and are only reporting on permanent employees that are tracked in the primary human resources management system, as well as our TES employees. Team members from MHG and Parrotfish who were onboarded on December 28, 2020 are not included. Training that was provided for team members in 2020, who were no longer with the company on December 31, 2020 has not been included.
3 As tracked through our learning portal – TeamHub only. TELUS has shifted from instructor-led or classroom learning to informal learning (i.e. self-learning). The latter hours are not formally tracked and are difficult to estimate and so they are not included in this data.
Overall. 
Gender Role Level. 
Male Female. 
Bargaining unit. 
Management professional Retail. 
Single contributor. 
Middle manager. 
Senior manager 8.05 9.33 5.73 11.23 4.06 22.33 8.04 10.04 3.04. 
TELUS International average training hours. 
Hours. 
Operations Non-operations. 
Single Contributor Team leader. 
Managers and above. 
Single Contributor Team leader. 
Managers and above. 
Total in hours 134,796 4,670 1,482 15,580 338 1,282. 
Average hours 3.9 23.7 21.8 3.8 21.1 22.9. 
Compensation. 
Our cash compensation for team members (not covered by a collective agreement) consists of a non-variable base salary and a variable component that is designed to focus on results. This approach recognizes high performers and key talent who are critical to the success of our organization.
We conduct ongoing market reviews and compensation analyses of job roles relative to the market and take appropriate action to pay competitively. Based on the results of the market review, the midpoints of our salary ranges are adjusted to align with the market median, where necessary.
TELUS wages compared to local minimum wage. 
Country/ location Currency. 
Wage Rate Frequency. 
Average Entry Level Wage Minimum Wage1 Wage Ratio. 
Canada CAD annual 28,700 25,200 1.14. 
Bulgaria BGN monthly 1,900 600 3.17. 
China CNY monthly 3,100 1,800 1.72. 
El Salvador USD monthly 600 300 2.00. 
Guatemala GTQ monthly 4,600 2,800 1.64. 
India INR monthly 33,800 16,000 2.11. 
Ireland EUR annual 23,700 21,200 1.12. 
Philippines PHP daily 677 537 1.26. 
Romania RON monthly 4,900 2,200 2.23. 
United States USD hourly 15 8.25 1.82 1 For countries such as Canada and U.S., where there are different minimum wages by province/state where TELUS operates, the minimum wage is the median of the wages for the different locations in each country.


54 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE. 
Each year, we review our gender pay equity for our team members who are not governed by specific legislation or collective agreements. The table below shows the average female base salary differential to males by level.
While there are differences with the technical requirements of the Pay Equity Act (which requires the use of a formal, pay equity compliant job evaluation plan to ensure equal pay for work of equal value), our approach has provided us with meaningful insight into any existing gender pay gaps, supported our efforts to address these gaps, and helped us quantify the progress we have made as an organization. We anticipate that these efforts will minimize any corrective measures required as a result of forthcoming pay equity legislation requirements.
Gender pay equity1 1 This data includes Canadian operations only.
Level Female representation Key factor average differential2. 
Executive 26% 1.7%
Management (people leaders) 34% 1.5%
Non-Management (all others) 36% 1.2%
Overall 36% 1.3% 2 Key factors include similar job family, hierarchical level, market rate (midpoint of salary range), tenure, and performance history.
Benefits We provide competitive, comprehensive and flexible benefit packages for permanent team members. This allows them to customize a plan to suit their diverse personal and familial situations. While benefits are not provided to team members under contract, most are eligible for the well-being account, retirement savings and the employee share purchase plan.
Company-wide pay and benefits ($ millions) 2020 2019 2018 2017. 
Total pay and benefits1 4,200 3,493 3,254 3,036 1 Excludes restructuring and other costs.
Retirement and savings plans We encourage team members to save for retirement through a variety of resources such as defined contribution pensions with matching options, a voluntary group registered retirement savings plan, and employee share plans.
Our defined contribution pension plans allow team members to contribute up to 10 per cent of their salary with TELUS providing a maximum contribution of 5.8 per cent. Additionally, we offer team members the ability to purchase TELUS shares through regular payroll deductions, where a portion is matched by TELUS. For more information regarding our compensation philosophy and executive pay, see our 2020 Information Circular.


55 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE. 
Health, safety and well-being. 
Our vision is to have team members equipped with resources and knowledge that contributes to an elevated culture of wellbeing. Our health, safety and well-being programs aim to support the best outcomes for our team members.
Absenteeism A more reactive measure of our health is absenteeism. In 2020, our absenteeism rate, which includes paid and unpaid time off work due to illness or injury, decreased slightly to 5.8 days per full-time equivalent position. Our absenteeism rate remains significantly below the Statistics Canada average.
We attribute low absenteeism to our drive towards better health outcomes, including our proactive response to pandemicrelated pressures, significant training and processes to support mental health and our Early Intervention Model. We proactively reach out to team members who have been absent for three consecutive days, providing support and offering resources for improved well-being. After three years of implementation we have seen an overall decrease in short-term disability claims.
Absenteeism rate (days)1,2 1 Data presented are for TELUS domestic employees tracked in the primary human resources management system. 2 The figure reported includes absences related to illness or injury (excluding long-term disability) calculated as the average number of productive days lost due to absenteeism per one full time employee (FTE) headcount.
Year. 
TELUS absenteeism per full-time employee. 
Average Canadian rate3. 
Full-time employees (private sector)
Organizations with over 500 employees Unionized organizations 2020 5.8 10.5 13.0 16.3 2019 6.1 9.0 12.5 14.9 2018 6.3 8.6 12.0 14.8 2017 6.2 8.4 11.8 14.3 3 Source: Statistics Canada.
Safety We remain on a relentless pursuit of the prevention of workplace accidents and injuries. Our Safety Management System (SMS), which aligns with governing legislation14, promotes a positive safety culture and is continuously monitored for its effectiveness.
14 Part II of the Canadian Labour Code and its regulations.
There is ongoing safety training in all areas of the organization, with a particular focus on the identification and management of workplace hazards. In 2020, our team members in the field completed approximately 11 hours of formal safety training, building their safety knowledge and skills. Performance targets are also set for our hazard control programs. These results are reported every quarter to the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of our Board.
Our safety record In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic dramatically changed the landscape of all workplaces. We responded to the pandemic by quickly transitioning the vast majority of team members to working remotely and implementing numerous controls to help protect the health and safety of team members. For example, we established a Medical Advisory Council of physicians with expertise in occupational health, public health, and epidemiology; we established ‘playbooks’ in all key operating areas with clear guidance on new operating protocols; and, we implemented advanced safety measures across our operations.
Our current lost time accident (LTA) rate of 0.40 is below the 2019 U.S. Telecommunications Industry average of 1.2 LTA (per 200,000 hours worked). The year-over-year frequency has significantly decreased due to the majority of team members working remotely and enhanced safety protocols due to COVID-19.


56 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
Safety performance1,2 1 Data from TELUS’ records as of January 17, 2021. 2 Data presented are for TELUS domestic employees tracked in the primary human resources management system.
Metric 2020 2019 2018 2017. 
Lost time accidents per 200,000 hours worked 0.40 0.62 0.62 0.69. 
Fatalities 0 0 0 0. 
Well-being Our scope of support includes five key dimensions of well-being – physical, psychological, social, financial and environmental. We have implemented a multi-pronged approach to support team member mental health by offering specialized resources, antistigma campaigns and mental health training. We also assessed our organizational alignment against Canada’s Mental Health Standard to enable ongoing improvements.
In 2020, we focused on proactive support to reduce the negative impacts of the pandemic. For example, we launched new processes, communications and initiatives to increase resiliency, creatively encouraged social virtual connection amongst our team members despite remote work requirements, increased the capacity of people leaders to support their teams, and encouraged those struggling with mental health issues to connect to specialty programs for support (read more on page 41).


57 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE. 
Labour relations. 
We maintain respectful and professional relationships with the labour unions that represent our team members across Canada and therefore, the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining is not at risk for TELUS. Our collective agreements contain mutually agreed upon adjustment processes that include: • Redeployment to another position based on seniority/ qualifications • Wage protection/retraining opportunities • Paid relocations • Early retirement or voluntary severance options for team members affected by organizational change • Advance notice periods for employees and the union in cases of management-initiated workplace changes.
Notice periods are different in each collective agreement and vary based on the nature of the operational issue, and in some cases, a team member’s seniority.
Union recognition and consultation In our negotiated collective agreements with various unions, we have established formal structured consultation committees and processes. In addition to regular and ongoing information sharing with union representatives and leaders, there were joint consultation sessions at the senior leadership level to discuss matters of mutual interest in 2020.
Company-wide union representation. 
Group. 
Employees covered by a collective agreement Total employees % covered by a collective agreement. 
Domestic 8,630 27,839 31. 
International 0 50,285 0. 
Total1 8,630 78,124 11 1 Active employees as of December 31, 2020, including 1,185 employees in TELUS Agriculture acquisitions.
Human rights. 
TELUS has a long-standing commitment to respecting and protecting human rights in our value chain as outlined in our Code of Ethics and Conduct, Respectful Workplace policy and Supplier Code of Conduct. The Code of Ethics and Conduct ties together all policies regulating business behaviour and provides standards of ethical conduct expected of all team members, including our Board. We also have a Workplace Accommodation Policy that aims to remove barriers preventing affected individuals from fully participating in the workplace and allows our team members to submit requests for assistance in assessing their individual circumstances and potential solutions. Our international operations comply with local human rights legislation in all jurisdictions where we operate.
These policies formalize our commitment to safeguard internationally-proclaimed human rights.
Feedback mechanisms We maintain feedback mechanisms for our team members, suppliers, customers and communities, to help address human rights risks and maintain a positive working environment. The TELUS EthicsLine provides an opportunity for anyone to anonymously and confidentially ask questions, request support or make a good faith report. Read more on page 22.
We also maintain an internal complaints procedure for human rights and Respectful Workplace issues, which are investigated and addressed by our Respectful Workplace Office. Complaints may be dismissed, withdrawn or referred to the appropriate Human Rights Tribunal. Complaints and resolution status are reported quarterly to the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of our Board.


58 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE. 
Human rights feedback1 1 This data includes domestic operations in Canada only.
Human rights complaints 2020 2019 2018 2017. 
Carry over from previous year 252 18 12 11. 
New 16 22 12 11. 
Closed 14 16 6 10. 
In progress at end of year 27 24 18 12 2 ADT Human Rights Complaint file added subsequent to integration with TELUS.
In addition to these feedback mechanisms, all collective agreements applicable to unionized team members include grievance and arbitration processes.
Assessing human rights risks Our Respectful Workplace Office performs an annual review of the Respectful Workplace policy to foster continued compliance with associated human rights legislation in each of the jurisdictions that TELUS operates. An analysis of complaints filed with our office and the Canadian Human Rights Commission, or other applicable human rights commissions, is conducted quarterly to determine if there are internal practices causing concern for our team members.
As a result of these practices, the teams identified in the table below (100 per cent of our team members and locations), continually identify gaps and make progress related to key human rights issues where TELUS may experience risk or exert influence.
Human rights risk mapping. 
Relevant human rights risk Approach to risk mitigation Responsible business unit. 
Freedom of association Administer and interpret collective agreements, labour and human rights laws and maintain respectful and professional relationships with the labour unions that represent team members.
Labour Relations. 
Data protection and privacy Ensure that data handling practices are responsible and respectful of customer and team member privacy.
Data & Trust Office. 
Aboriginal title and rights, treaty rights and selfdetermination. 
Engage with Indigenous Nations in a manner that supports and respects self-determination and the rights set out in UNDRIP. Build authentic relationships with Indigenous governments that respect Aboriginal Title and Rights, Treaty Rights that create opportunity and support the processes of decolonization and reconciliation.
Regulatory Affairs and Indigenous Relations. 
Freedom from discrimination and harassment. 
Support a strong culture of respect in the workplace through education, consultation, mediation, and investigation of workplace issues.
Respectful Workplace Office. 
Equity and accessibility Develop and implement initiatives and provide education that promotes diversity and inclusiveness within the workplace and the community.
Diversity and Inclusiveness. 
Safety Support the creation and maintenance of a healthy and safe workplace through education, hazard identification, and prevention.
Corporate Safety. 
Standard of living Design and promote personalized recognition, compensation and benefits programs that support the diverse needs and well-being of our team members and their families.
Total Rewards. 
Health Equip team members with resources and knowledge to optimize their well-being, support the health of those around them, and contribute to an elevated culture of well-being.
Well-Being and Health Services


59 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE. 
Monitoring and identifying risk in our value chain We believe that awareness and active management of human rights issues in our value chain is essential to our success. We continuously look to identify and manage risk as well as create opportunities for our team members, customers and communities, including: • For our Canadian workforce, the Compliance Governance Committee provides oversight of our annual human rights program inherent residual risk assessments • For the assessment and understanding of community needs, we partner with local organizations in the community and other organizations with subject matter experience about the vulnerable groups who would benefit most from our Connecting for Good initiatives • For the assessment of suppliers, our Supply Chain Team uses surveys to ensure alignment on sustainability-related matters, which includes human rights principles.
Training We have specific training based on our Respectful Workplace policy that is required for all newly hired team members, team members promoted into management professional and people leader roles, and newly engaged contractors. The training outlines acceptable behaviour in the workplace, current human rights legislation, and the available human rights and respectful workplace protections and processes should an issue arise. In addition, our integrity training is completed by 100 per cent of employees annually, read more on page 22.
Gender transition guidelines To ensure individuals considering or going through a gender transition receive the support they need, gender transition guidelines are available internally on our intranet. Upon request, the Respectful Workplace Office provides team members with additional information, resources and education on gender transition.
Diversity and workforce profile 15 15 The following data tables containing information on our team member demographics does not include our acquisitions in TELUS Agriculture Solutions in 2020 of 1,185 employees globally. We are in the process of onboarding and capturing all demographic details.
At TELUS, we believe that honouring the diversity of our team, customers and communities leads us to new perspectives, strengthens our ability to connect for good and create remarkable outcomes for Canadians. We are committed to ensuring diversity is represented at every level of the organization by equipping our leaders with the tools and insights necessary to make informed hiring decisions. At TELUS International, our recruitment policy for senior roles is to promote from within the team or hire candidates from the local market where we operate.
TELUS Domestic employees. 
Work type Female Male Total. 
Permanent 9,844 17,143 26,987. 
Temporary 361 401 762. 
Full-time 8,812 16,134 24,946. 
Part-time 1,393 1,410 2,803


60 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE. 
TELUS International employees. 
Work type Female Male Total. 
Permanent 21,479 26,325 47,804. 
Temporary 721 665 1,386. 
Full-time 20,156 25,106 45,262. 
Part-time 2,044 1,884 3,928. 
TELUS Domestic employees by gender. 
Employee category (%) Female Male. 
Senior Management 31.5 68.5. 
Middle Management 36.1 63.9. 
Professional / Staff 39.7 60.3. 
Frontline / Agents 33.9 66.1. 
TELUS International employees by gender. 
Employee category (%) Female Male. 
Senior Management 34.9 65.1. 
Middle Management 38.8 61.2. 
Professional / Staff 46.3 53.7. 
Frontline / Agents 45.8 54.2. 
Unmapped1 41.9 58.1 1 The roles of 418 TELUS International employees at Competence Call Center, acquired in 2020, have not yet aligned to TELUS International standards and have been reported as ‘unmapped’.
We closely monitor the success of our inclusive culture through our annual Pulsecheck survey, and found that in 2020, 95 per cent of TELUS team members agree or strongly agree that, “we have a work environment that embraces diversity and accepts individual differences (e.g., gender, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, religion and age).
TELUS Domestic employees by designated groups1 1 Due to improvements made to our workforce tracking methodology in 2020, previous years’ data in this table has been restated.
Designated group (%) 2020 2019 2018 2017. 
Female 36.8 37.1 37.7 36.1. 
Visible minorities2 33.1 32.6 31.8 31.5. 
Persons with disabilities2 8.3 8.3 8.2 8.1. 
Indigenous Peoples2 3.6 3.6 3.8 3.7 2 Data for these categories depends upon full-time and part-time employee self-identification in TELUS’ diversity survey


FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: ECONOMIC IMPACT 61 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) In 2006, TELUS’ D&I Team formally launched our strategy and established a volunteer-based Council. Our Council has supported our strategy as a working group, helped launch our TELUS Team Resource Groups (TRG) and advanced our inclusive culture to where we are today. In 2020, the Council evolved from a working group to an appointed Advisory Board of Directors and vice presidents who are accountable for elevating our strategy and delivering even more measurable impact with our D&I Team.
In 2020, the D&I Team and Council worked to engage team members across TELUS to share our stance against racism and all forms of systemic bias, and reaffirm our commitment to continue standing united in our pursuit of equity, fairness, social justice and systemic change. With this feedback, the team launched a renewed D&I strategy. Furthermore, all senior leaders at TELUS were invited to participate in roundtable learning on racial injustice and their role as leaders in fostering equitable and inclusive teams.
Our TRGs support over 7,000 members, and together play an important role in advancing inclusion within our organization and communities. Some of the TRG achievements in 2020 include:
Abilities network: continued to grow the resource group, focused on education, and recognized awareness days like the UN Day of Persons with Disabilities with screenings and workshops showcasing barriers faced by people with disabilities and how we can continue to make TELUS a more inclusive workplace.
Connections: engaged team members nationally to celebrate International Women’s Day and held our first virtual CHLOE Awards gala, where team members across Canada came together online to celebrate 417 remarkable nominees and honour the power of diversity.
Eagles: honoured Indigenous Peoples by hosting a national virtual panel discussion open to all team members and the general public for National Indigenous Peoples Day, where four Indigenous leaders discussed the topic of Indigenous resilience during the COVID-19 pandemic. The group also partnered with the Orange Shirt Day Society to hold a talk from Phyllis Webstad about the history of residential schools in Canada.
MOSAIC: engaged with team members through virtual events and celebrations including Black History Month, New Moon festival and Diwali.
Spectrum: connected members virtually through fundraising events and participating in online Pride celebrations. Through this work, Spectrum raised more than $8,000 for non-profit organizations that support local LGBTQ+ communities.
REACH: In early 2021, we launched our newest TELUS team resource group in support of our Black team members and their allies. REACH’s goal is to advance diverse representation in decision-making and to shine light on systemic issues that disproportionately and uniquely affect the Black community.


62 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY. 
Supply chain sustainability. 
Our Supply Chain Team plays a vital role in carrying out TELUS’ strategic initiatives. This involves collaborating across business units and working with suppliers and service providers to ensure the right products and services are deployed in a safe and cost-effective manner. Our supply chain strategy aims to be inclusive, sustainable and one that makes a positive difference for our business, customers and communities. We are committed to applying policies and practices that reflect this vision and to collaborate with our stakeholders to reach our goals.
Governance and oversight We value our relationships with our suppliers because they help us achieve our business objectives and contribute to our overall success as an organization. We award business to suppliers who demonstrate a strong commitment to sustainable development by adopting ethical, labour, health and safety, environmental principles and compliance practices that align with ours, and ensure the well-being of their employees, contractors and communities.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct (the Code) is fundamentally aligned with our commitment to being a leading corporate citizen. In 2020, TELUS integrated our company-wide Sustainable Paper and Packaging Policy into the Code. Consistent with the Code of Ethics and Conduct that applies to our employees and contractors, the Code is based upon generally accepted standards of ethical business conduct. We expect our suppliers to comply with this Code, embedded in all supplier contracts, and all applicable laws and regulations wherever they operate.
COVID-19 response and supporting our communities The impacts ofthe COVID-19 pandemic were felt throughout the organization and the supply chain team had to quickly pivot to make certain TELUS employees and customers remained safe and were equipped to continue their activities within a physically-distanced environment. The supply chain team engaged local suppliers and put in place short-term and longterm contingency plans to secure personal protective equipment and supplies for all employees.
We leveraged our supplier relationships and took a series of risk mitigation steps to ensure continuity of supply to uphold our commitment to keeping Canadians connected and minimizing downtime for businesses. These steps included the early purchase of vital materials, securing manufacturing slots and increasing the frequency of supplier meetings to gain insight on potential workforce impacts and raw material shortages.
We recognize the importance of ensuring a healthy economic environment and supporting businesses across the country. Therefore, we supported smaller vendors who were facing financial hardships by accelerating payments to maintain their cash flow balances. Our supply chain team has also facilitated the distribution of mobile devices for our Devices for Good program, sourced masks with proceeds benefiting the TELUS Future Friendly Foundation as well as donations of personal protective equipment to vulnerable communities.
Recognition At the World Procurement Awards in 2020, we received the Supply Chain Initiative Award for our Network Managed Spares program. In addition, TELUS was the only Canadian organization shortlisted for the Innovation Award for the development of both our Robotic Process Automation Centre of Excellence and our Internal Transformation Award. We were also a finalist for the Most Improved Supplier Diversity Program at the Women Business Enterprises Canada Supplier Diversity Awards showcase.


63 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
Supplier diversity. 
Our supplier diversity program takes proactive steps to provide equal access to suppliers that reflect the diversity of where we live, work and serve. Our goal is to encourage positive social change through buying behaviour with suppliers that are 51 per cent or more owned, controlled and operated by an individual that’s considered diverse based on their ethnicity, sexuality, gender, veteran status and/or if able bodied.
In 2019, we set a target to increase our spend with diverse suppliers by three to five per cent (year over year). In 2020, we reached that goal with the value of spend with diverse suppliers increased by more than five per cent. Our target is to increase this spend by a further three to five per cent in 2021.
Our continued advocacy and leadership in supplier diversity across Canada has included: • Analyzing our diverse supplier spend to calculate the total economic impact of our program (direct, indirect and induced) on Canadian production, jobs, and wages • Participating in the Canadian Aboriginal and Minority Supplier Council (CAMSC), Women Business Enterprises Canada, and Canadian Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce (CGLCC) • Establishing membership with the Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business (CCAB) that supports our commitment to Indigenous reconciliation.
In 2021, we will further implement our action plan to develop and promote our supplier diversity program.


64 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
Integrating sustainability into our supply chain. 
In addition to our supplier diversity program, we are committed to integrating sustainability considerations throughout our supply chain management practices. In 2020, we launched a new program to ensure that there is a standard, minimum weighting for consideration of sustainability principles embedded in all sourcing documents with implementation scheduled for 2021. In 2020, we also introduced a line of eco-friendly phone accessories made from 100 per cent compostable materials. As consumer trends evolve, our supply chain team plays an integral role in bringing sustainable products to the marketplace.
End-of-life management A key focus for our Supply Operations Team, is the management of end-of-life products and devices that are returned or recovered from our customers. In 2020, we expanded our scope to our wireless devices through the expansion of our Certified Pre-Owned program and increased the volume of refurbished units by 16 per cent compared to 2019. Looking ahead, we are exploring a refurbishment program for our Home Security products to further extend their life.
In addition, our Bring-It-Back™ program provides a financial incentive to customers to return devices, increasing our overall recovery rate. These devices are refurbished and reintroduced into the market, extending their useful life and providing an affordable mobile device option for customers. TELUS also uses refurbished units as the primary source of devices for our team members.
In 2020, we successfully completed and passed an external audit and we were re-certified by the British Columbia Ministry of Environment as a steward of electronic waste under the B.C. Stewardship Program, demonstrating our continued commitment in responsibly managing our impact on the environment.
Service pole recycling In partnership with our provincial electricity providers, TELUS is seeking to maximize the reuse and repurposing of our service poles in order to significantly reduce their environmental impact. Currently, approximately 70 per cent of poles taken out of service are recycled or repurposed. Our objective is to improve the waste diversion rate by 20 per cent in 2021, with an overall target of achieving a 99 per cent diversion rate by the end of 2025.
For further information on our work in responsible resource use in our supply chain, including our targets to improve our performance, see page 35.
Monitoring our suppliers. 
In 2020, we embarked on a multi-year transformation project to evolve how we manage our key supplier relationships. The aim of the project is to revitalize our existing Supplier Relationship Management Program by developing a systematic approach to aid in how we manage the key milestones within the supplier lifecycle and to enhance strategic partnerships.
Large Suppliers An additional level of scrutiny is applied to suppliers surpassing a spend threshold. In accordance with our Supplier Due Diligence policy and program, we monitor these suppliers with an additional level of scrutiny focusing on financial health, adherence to a sustainability questionnaire, insurance compliance, health and safety auditing, and sanction vetting.
Following this screening, suppliers who are rated as high risk will be notified and a corrective action plan will be developed between TELUS and the supplier to move towards compliance. We remain on track to meet our 2021 goal to begin annual renewal of supplier compliance under this program.
Critical Suppliers TELUS seeks to foster strong relationships with suppliers that are critical to the products and services our customers rely upon. We define critical suppliers as those having a high impact on customer experience or network reliability, as well as other parameters. For example, non-critical suppliers may become defined as critical if they experience repeated outages and become a risk for our business continuity performance.
Our Supply Chain Team works to establish a culture of continuous improvement with these suppliers through regular meetings on reliability and performance, governance and technological risk. We screen and monitor critical suppliers through our performance management framework called Sentinel. This framework has two parts: a dashboard that tracks metrics on performance; and a stakeholder management component where we can engage the supplier. Where there are lagging metrics, an improvement plan is developed and monitored on a quarterly basis.
In 2020, TELUS integrated the Sentinel framework into the Supplier Relationship Management Program, which would enable a broader set of suppliers to leverage the best practices and incorporate lessons learned from this framework.
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY


FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY. 
Payments to suppliers. 
TELUS helps strengthen Canada’s economy through our purchase of goods and services. This supports Canadians and the companies they work for and invest in.
Vendor payments ($ millions, except as noted) 2020 2019 2018 2017. 
Vendors with locations in Canada1 8,527 8,861 9,287 8,574. 
As a % of total vendor payments 93 93 93 91. 
Non-Canadian vendors 673 689 676 829. 
As a % of total vendor payments 7 7 7 9. 
Total vendor payments 9,200 9,550 9,963 9,403. 
As a % of consolidated revenues 60 65 69 70 1 We define local suppliers as those that reside in Canada.
Conflict minerals. 
In 2012, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) finalized reporting requirements to disclose the use of designated minerals and metals mined in the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjacent countries. Cassiterite (a source of tin), wolframite (a source of tungsten), columbite-tantalite (or coltan, a source of tantalum) and gold are often referred to collectively as conflict minerals. Such minerals may be used in electronic and communications equipment that we use or sell.
As a signatory of the UNGC, we are committed to preventing human rights abuses that could result from our operations. These SEC reporting requirements for conflict minerals, mandated by Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, came into effect for our 2013 annual reporting cycle. Through the establishment of an internal conflict minerals working group, we have performed our due diligence and have met the reporting requirements each year.
65 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT


66 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: PRIVACY, TRANSPARENCY AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE. 
Privacy, transparency and regulatory compliance. 
We earn and maintain customers’ trust by vigilantly protecting their personal information and using data in a way that generates value, promotes respect and delivers security.
Governance and oversight TELUS’ Board of Directors and executive team are accountable for oversight of the privacy management program and the Audit Committee of the Board receives a formal report on the privacy program from the Chief Data & Trust Officer on a quarterly basis. Our Data & Trust Office (DTO) ensures that our data handling practices are responsible and respectful of customers’ privacy. We work to evolve our privacy and data governance models so that the protections we put in place for our customers are up to date with technological advancements that may carry privacy implications. A core objective of the DTO is to earn and maintain customer trust through transparency about TELUS’ rigorous data handling practices and commitment to ethical data use. Learn more about the TELUS trust model here.
Privacy governance starts with collaboration between the Data & Trust Office and the business units working with data. We use a program of dedicated “Privacy Partners” who develop a deep understanding and working relationship with specific business units. Tools such as mandatory privacy impact assessments and ethical reviews are used to identify and mitigate risks.
Privacy by Design We have embraced Privacy by Design (PbD) as an essential component of our privacy management program. The PbD seven principles are a globally recognized framework for the protection of privacy. PbD seeks to proactively embed privacy into the design specifications of information technologies, organizational practices and system architectures. In 2020, we achieved PbD certification for our Insights and SmartHome Security programs. We continue to evaluate certification of our products and services when it will help our customers feel safe and respected online.
Our privacy commitment The TELUS Privacy Management Program reflects our desire to exceed our privacy obligations as prescribed by legislation, to be transparent with customers, and to provide further direction for our team members.
To help our customers understand our privacy practices, we have created information sources that explain those practices in our online Privacy Centre.
In 2020, we were awarded the HPE-IAPP Privacy Innovation Award by the International Association of Privacy Professionals in recognition of our Data for Good program. The program leverages an advanced approach to de-identified data analytics to aid all levels of government and public agencies in making more strategic and informed data-driven decisions, while respecting customer privacy.
Privacy complaints We received no privacy complaints filed with the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada in 2020.
Breaches Any organization that collects and uses personal information must be prepared to respond quickly and effectively to a breach of data security safeguards. We have a dedicated breach response group within the Data & Trust Office that coordinates cross-functional teams to rapidly address suspected breaches. The teams are guided by a Data Incident Response Readiness Playbook.
Transparency As a national telecommunications company, we routinely receive requests for information about our telecommunications customers from Law Enforcement and Government agencies. Accurate information about the nature and volume of personal information requests by such government bodies to private companies inform the ongoing global discussion about the collection and handling of personal information by government organizations.
We continue to provide insight into our approach for responding to lawful requests as well as the volume and types of requests we receive. We are proud of our record of openly sharing with our customers the details about how we respectfully handle and secure their data.


67 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: PRIVACY, TRANSPARENCY AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE. 
Online privacy resources for customers. 
Privacy centre Provides information to help understand TELUS' privacy practices, data analytics and responsible AI, as well as best practices on how our customers can help to protect their information online, and more. TELUS publishes its trust model to help customers understand how we build trust with our stakeholders by using data in a way that generates value, promotes respect and delivers security.
Privacy commitment Without our customers’ consent, we will not share their personal information with marketers of third-party products or services.
Privacy code Explains privacy legislation and describes the broad privacy principles that we adhere to in handling customer and team member information.
Cookies notice Describes the limited purposes for which we use cookies across TELUS’ websites and applications.
Frequently asked question Answers the most common customer questions we receive regarding TELUS’ privacy practices.
Privacy management program. 
Identifies the ways we have operationalized our privacy commitments.
Contact Customers can call us at 1-800-567-0000 or email us at privacy@telus.com for further information.
Information Requests by Law Enforcement Agencies The vast majority of the requests we received in 2020, were related to calls from 9-1-1 Public Safety Answering Point operators and Police Agencies across Canada asking for help in real time to locate a person that may be missing, suicidal or in imminent danger.
In addition to emergency circumstances, we must respond and only do respond when we are required by a lawful authority. Consistent with our customers first philosophy, we challenge information requests that go beyond what is lawfully authorized, in the interest of protecting customer data and privacy. We review court orders and accompanying production requests and where applicable take necessary legal steps to address potential over reach. We will only release confidential customer information when we are satisfied it is appropriate legal necessary to do so.
In 2020, we challenged or declined to provide information in response to a total of 642 court orders that appeared to be invalid or overreaching. The continued due care that law enforcement exercises in preparing their requests for records has contributed to minimizing the challenge we are required to make to production requests.
Due to COVID-19 impacts, legislative demand orders from government agencies were down 48 per cent from 2019. This was attributed to a shift in processes and priorities within various government agencies. Court orders from law enforcement increased by 10 per cent from 2019 attributed to law enforcement investigative procedures and lawful requests.
Requests for information. 
Type of request 2020 2019 2018 2017. 
Court orders 6,679 6,069 4,858 4,785. 
Subpoenas 273 439 559 465. 
Mutual legal assistance treaty (MLAT) orders1 7 4 2 3. 
Emergency calls 66,304 57,443 60,935 57,704. 
Legislative demands2 646 1,335 1,152 975 1 Typically, these are requests for aid from a law enforcement agency in another country related to a criminal investigation and require an order from a Canadian court. We do not respond to requests that come directly from foreign agencies but will provide information if ordered to do so by a Canadian court.
2 Requests for information by a government body where TELUS is required by applicable legislation to provide the information. For example, pursuant to the Income Tax Act, the Canada Revenue Agency may require TELUS to disclose certain customer information.


68 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
Cybersecurity. 
Our cybersecurity strategy is overseen by the TELUS Chief Security Officer, who presents and engages the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Our security team keeps up to date with the latest physical and cyber threats and devise solutions that help keep TELUS, our network, team members and customers secure.
We provide resources to all team members to be able to report a security issue (e.g., loss, phishing, fraud, social engineering attempts and other security issues), resources to design secure solutions, and a library of our corporate security policies and practices. In the event that an employee notices something suspicious, we maintain a clear escalation process so issues are managed according to our policies. Furthermore, all team members complete a cybersecurity awareness training module on an annual basis.
Regulatory compliance. 
We understand the important role regulation plays for our operating environment and to our customers. We continue to be an advocate for positive regulatory changes, demonstrating compliance with legislation, regulatory rules and requirements while delivering vital and reliable products and services. Our compliance differentiates us from our competitors.
The Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) decisions and court rulings continue to support the federal government’s exclusive jurisdiction over telecommunications, including the construction, maintenance and operation of network infrastructure. These outcomes reaffirm that federal jurisdiction cannot be circumvented by municipal legislation and impact the way we deliver services to Canadians and contribute to the digital economy.
For further details on regulatory impacts to our business, see section 10.3 of our 2020 Annual Report.
Responding to COVID-19 TELUS ensured business continuity and flexibility during the COVID-19 pandemic by securing our ability to operate in the face of pandemic restrictions. We secured essential service exemptions, negotiated emergency spectrum authorizations, and received recognition from the Government of Canada on the criticality of our network. As we face further public health restrictions and challenges with vaccine distribution, we are protecting team members by advising on workplace vaccine policies. We are taking a scientific and interdisciplinary approach to vaccine promotion and risk communication.
TELUS Health and TELUS Agriculture TELUS Health is playing an active role in promoting a regulatory framework that will help transform and digitize health care. Virtual care has great potential to address many of the challenges faced by the Canadian health care system and we recognize and respect the principles of the Canada Health Act and that Canadian citizens should have equal access to medically necessary services.
TELUS Health also advocates for positive regulatory changes that would result in national digital interoperability standards that would facilitate collaboration between and among health professionals in a patient’s health care team, allowing. This allows health care professionals to collaborate and exchange information across the multiple systems used today in the health care systems (e.g., hospitals, clinics, pharmacies, senior homes, laboratories) and provides patients access to their health records and those of their dependents.
With TELUS Agriculture’s international footprint, our operations must comply with the laws, regulations and decisions in effect in all of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations relate to a number of aspects of TELUS Agriculture’s business, including data privacy and protection; privacy practices; data residency; employment and labor relations; trade protections and restrictions; import and export control; tariffs; taxation; sanctions; data and transaction processing security; records management; and corporate governance.
Preventing spam and nuisance calls Canada’s Anti-Spam Legislation (CASL) is intended to protect Canadians from spam (e.g., marketing emails, text messages) and other electronic threats, while allowing companies to compete in an increasingly digital world. We maintain a CASL compliance program that includes consent and form requirements that apply to commercial electronic messages sent to customers by or on behalf of TELUS. Our Unsolicited Telecommunications Rules (UTR) compliance program outlines telemarketing rules.
We continue to offer our team members up to date training and education with respect to TELUS’ CASL and UTR obligations to ensure compliance. Additionally, we have developed a Call Control service, an advanced call filtering system that is very effective at blocking auto-dialed nuisance calls. Call Control was originally available to wireline subscribers, following its success, but has now been expanded to TELUS Mobility users.
FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: PRIVACY, TRANSPARENCY AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE


FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES: PRIVACY, TRANSPARENCY AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE. 
Net neutrality The CRTC has an established net neutrality framework with respect to internet traffic and we remain in full compliance. The legislative framework for net neutrality is included in the Telecommunications Act as well as mandated in CRTC decisions governing internet traffic management practices and differential pricing practices. We continue to disclose internet traffic management practices and only offer differential pricing practices in compliance with the CRTC’s framework.
Wireless and Internet Codes The CRTC’s Wireless Code is a mandatory code of conduct for all retail mobile wireless voice and data services providers offering services to consumer and small business customers. The Wireless Code sets baseline requirements for customer rights and service provider responsibilities. We submit a Wireless Code compliance report to the CRTC each year in accordance with their requirements. In 2020, TELUS submitted its annual report and received no follow-up inquiries from the CRTC.
The CRTC’s mandatory Internet Code came into force in 2020, for large facilities-based internet service providers that provide retail fixed internet access service. We work to exceed the baseline elements of this Code as part of our customers first commitment. In 2020, TELUS submitted its first annual Internet Code compliance report and received no follow-up inquiries from the CRTC.
Accessibility We promote the values of diversity and inclusion and are committed to meeting the needs of people with disabilities. In this effort, we have engaged in numerous consultations with people with disabilities to better understand their needs and enhance accessibility offerings. In addition, we have developed a comprehensive database of device accessibility features based on third-party audits of wireless devices conducted by the Inclusive Design Research Centre. We list the audited mobile devices and their accessibility features on our website. We also design our websites to meet or exceed the latest accessibility standards and best practices, and conduct accessibility reviews before launching any new website.
We provide comprehensive accessibility and diversity training to each of our call centre and retail customer service representatives and ensure that our self-serve kiosks are accessible. To further enhance accessibility, we are planning to expand the number of TELUS Accessibility Centres of Excellence, which incorporate accessibility principles into the physical environment and customer service experience. Representatives at these locations receive intensive training focused solely on understanding and assisting customers with disabilities.
Our Accessibility Policy and a full description of our various products and services can be found on our website.
Wireless public alerting TELUS is a proud supporter of the public alerting system which provides wireless and broadcast customers with immediate notice of an emergency that is occurring, or about to occur, in their local area. Further details of Canada’s emergency public alerting system and a demonstration of how the alert appears and sounds on a wireless device are available at the Alertready.ca. 
Broadcasting Our regional licences to operate broadcasting distribution undertakings in B.C. and Alberta, and our licence to operate a national video-on-demand service were granted renewals in 2018, which extends the licence terms of each licence to 2023. Our licence to operate a regional broadcasting distribution undertaking in areas of Quebec was renewed in 2019, extending the licence term to 2024.
In 2020, the Broadcasting and Telecommunications Legislative Review Panel released its final report entitled Canada’s Communications Future: Time to Act, which contained 97 recommendations to update legislation governing broadcasting, telecommunications and radio communication for the Government of Canada to consider. Further to the report, the Government introduced legislation to amend the Broadcasting Act. The bill would bring streaming services that operate over the internet expressly within the scope of the Broadcasting Act.
Copyright Act “Notice and Notice” provisions in the Copyright Act require internet service providers to forward notices received from copyright-holders about alleged acts of copyright infringement to relevant customers. TELUS has complied with the Notice and Notice requirements since they came into force, and prior to that voluntarily forwarded notices of alleged infringement received from copyright complainants. TELUS continues to advocate for changes to support automation of notice processing within the Copyright Act. The intent of these advocacy efforts, which remain ongoing, is to: • Deter misuse of the regime by allowing internet service providers to charge a fee for notice forwarding • Facilitate automation by having a statutory form of notice that rights holders are required to use when sending notices • Reduce non-compliance risks by requiring that statutory damages awards be proportional to actual harm to rights holders and supported by evidence of bad faith.
Political contributions As a means of supporting the democratic process, TELUS may occasionally provide political contributions. Any contributions are made in accordance with all applicable laws, as well as our Code of Ethics and Conduct and our Political Contributions policy. We made no political contributions for the past three years.
69 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT


70 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT. 
Limited assurance report. 
To: The Board of Directors and Management of TELUS. 
Our scope of our work We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement of the accompanying selected corporate-wide and business unit information (Appendix A) included in TELUS’ 2020 Sustainability Report (the Report) for the year ended December 31, 2020.
TELUS responsibility for the Sustainability Report TELUS management is responsible for the collection and presentation of the disclosures and information set out in the Report. TELUS is also responsible for selecting the information as well as their presentation in the report. This responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation of a sustainability report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Our independence and quality control We have complied with the relevant rules of professional conduct / code of ethics applicable to the practice of public accounting and related to assurance engagements, issued by various professional accounting bodies, which are founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.
The firm applies Canadian Standard on Quality Control 1, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Our responsibility, assurance standards and key assurance procedures Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the selected information in TELUS’ 2020 Sustainability Report based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 developed by the International Federation of Accountants. As such, we planned and performed our work in order to provide limited assurance with respect to the selected information that we reviewed. Our criteria were based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Standards 2016 (or GRI Standards). Our procedures included: • interviewing relevant TELUS management and staff responsible for data collection and reporting; • obtaining an understanding of the management systems, processes and the relevant controls used to generate, aggregate and report the data at TELUS regional operations and head office; • reviewing relevant documents and records on a sample basis; • testing and re-calculating information related to the selected information on a sample basis; • assessing the information for consistency with our knowledge of TELUS operations, including comparing TELUS’ assertions to publicly available third-party information; and • assessing the selected quantitative information noted in Appendix A and TELUS’ self-declaration that it has met the Core level of conformance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Standards 2016 (GRI Standards) requirements. The GRI Standards definitions can be found at www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
Environmental, energy use, and social data are subject to inherent limitations of accuracy given the nature and the methods used for calculating such data. The selection of different acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary.
Limited assurance conclusion Based on our work described in the Scope of Our Work section above and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected information are not presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the relevant criteria.
Deloitte LLP Chartered Professional Accountants Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada March 30, 2021


71 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT. 
Appendix A – Selected corporate-wide and business unit sustainability information. 
The following selected sustainability information were included in our limited assurance engagement of TELUS’ Corporate Social Responsibility Report for the year ended December 31, 2020.
GRI Standard Performance indicator Coverage 2020 value 102-8 Total workforce – By region Company-wide. 
BC: 7,962 AB: 5,458 ON: 7,942 QC: 5,792 SK: 91 MB: 136 NL: 142 NB: 75 NS: 150 YK: 0 NWT: 1 Canada: 27,749 International: 49,190 Total: 76,939 102-8 Total workforce – By employment type Company-wide. 
Permanent Domestic 26,987 Permanent International 47,804. 
Temporary Domestic 762 Temporary International 1,386 102-8 Total workforce – By age group Company-wide. 
Over 50 Domestic 5,882 30-50 Domestic 17,507 Under 30 Domestic 4,360. 
Over 50 International 1,685 30-50 International 21,908 Under 30 International 25,597 102-41 Percent of workforce unionized Company-wide TELUS domestic: 11% TELUS International: 0% 201-1 Community investment Company-wide $85.1 million 205-2 Percent of employees completing ethics training Company-wide 100% 205-3 Inquiries and complaints relating to the company’s ethics policy Company-wide 693 205-3 Number of concerns determined to be breaches of ethics policy Company-wide 119 301-1 Paper purchased Canada 15 metric tonnes 302-1 Total energy use – Direct sources Company-wide 236,142 kwh (000s) 302-1 Total energy use – Indirect sources Company-wide 825,657 kwh (000s) 303-3 Total water withdrawal Company-wide 551 million litres (L) 305-1 Total direct greenhouse gas emissions Company-wide 53,002 tonnes CO2e 305-2 Total indirect greenhouse gas emissions Company-wide 214,590 tonnes CO2e


72 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT 305-3 Air travel greenhouse gas emissions Company-wide 2,026 tonnes CO2e 306-3 Number of reportable spills and releases Canada 27 306-3 Number of non-reportable spills and releases Canada 174 306-3 Total volume of spills and releases Canada Liquids: 52,807 L Gases: 1,317 kg 401-1 Employee turnover rate Company-wide TELUS Canada: 12% TELUS International: 38% 403-2 Lost time accident rate Canada 0.40 403-2 Absenteeism rate Canada 5.80 404-1 Average annual learning hours Canada 8.05 per employee 405-1 Workforce demographics – Gender and minorities as a percent of TELUS workforce Canada. 
Women: 36.8% Members of Visible Minorities: 33.1% Persons with Disabilities: 8.3% Indigenous People: 3.6% 406-1 Number of human rights cases opened and closed Canada. 
Carryover from previous year: 25 New: 16 Closed: 14 In progress at end of year: 27


73 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE. 
Global Reporting Initiative. 
This report has been prepared using the Global Reporting Initiative Standards Core Option and we have engaged Deloitte LLP as our independent assurance provider over this information. The index below lists where you can find information related to each GRI criterion – either in the 2020 Sustainability Report (SR), the ESG Data Sheet (ESG), the TELUS 2020 Annual Report (AR), the 2020 Annual Information Form (AIF), or the 2020 Information Circular (IC).
General Disclosure Standard Indicator or disclosure Report Location Comment/Omission. 
Organizational Profile. 
GRI 102-1 Name of organization AIF page 7. 
GRI 102-2 Activities AR page 16-21 AIF page 8-13. 
GRI 102-3 Headquarters location AIF page 7. 
GRI 102-4 Location of operations SR page 57, 96 ESG page 19. 
GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form AIF page 7. 
GRI 102-6 Markets served AR page 18-21. 
GRI 102-7 Scale of organization AR page 34. 
GRI 102-8 Employee information ESG page 18-20. 
For International operations, no significant portion of activities are performed by non-employees, nor are there significant variations in employee data shared within this table. Data is compiled using Human Resource tracking systems.
GRI 102-9 Supply Chain SR page 13, 62-65. 
GRI 102-10 Significant changes to organization or supply chain AR page 45-46. 
Commitments to External Activities. 
GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach AIF page 14-20. 
GRI 102-12 External initiatives SR page 2. 
GRI 102-13 Memberships SR page 2. 
Strategy and Analysis GRI 102-14 Statement from Senior Decision Maker SR page 3-11. 
Ethics and Integrity GRI 102-16 Organizational Values, principles, standards, norms of behaviour. 
SR page 12-15 AR page 11-15, 51-55. 
Governance GRI 102-18 Governance Structure and Composition. 
IC page 35-40 AR 27-28, 102 SR page 16-18. 
Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholders SR page 18. 
Organizational Profile GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements SR page 57. 
Stakeholder Engagement. 
GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR page 18. 
GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR page 18. 
GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR page 18-19. 
Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries. 
GRI 102-45 Entities included in consolidated financial statements. 
AR page 32-33, 66. 
GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries SR page 1. 
GRI 102-47 List of material topics SR page 14. 
GRI 102-48 Restatements of information SR page 1. 
GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting SR page 1


74 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE. 
Standard Indicator or disclosure Report Location Comment. 
Standard Indicator or disclosure Report Location Comment. 
Report Profile. 
GRI 102-50 Report content SR page 1. 
GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report SR page 1. 
GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle SR page 1. 
GRI 102-53 Contact for report questions SR page 1. 
GRI 102-54 Reporting in accordance with GRI standards SR page 1. 
GRI 102-56 External assurance SR page 1, 70. 
Management Approach. 
Management approach. 
GRI 103-1 Explanation of material topic and its boundaries N/A. 
Approaches for GRI Standards Specific Topics as indicated below in this table are disclosed in each relevant section in the report and explains why they are significant. 
GRI 103-2 Management approach and its components N/A Each relevant section in the report discloses applicable strategies, policies, procedures and KPIs. 
GRI 103-3 Evaluation of management approach N/A At the end of each section we discuss plans for 2020 as part of continuous evaluation process. 
Material Topics. 
Economic. 
Economic Performance. 
GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 
AR page 4, 6-8, 16 SR page 12, 47-49. 
GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change. 
SR page 16, 30-35 AIF page 14-20. 
GRI 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans. 
SR page 54 AR page 79, 89, 97. 
GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from government AR page 156. 
Indirect economic impacts. 
GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investment and services supported. 
SR page 49, AR page 11-12, 50, 53. 
GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts SR page 48. 
Procurement practices GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers SR page 65. 
Anti-corruption. 
GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption SR page 23-24. 
GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anticorruption policies and procedures SR page 22-24. 
GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken SR page 23-24. 
Anti-competitive behaviour. 
GRI 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust and monopoly practices. 
AR page 106 AIF page 27. 
Environment. 
Materials GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume SR page 30-37. 
TELUS is not a manufacturer therefore, this is not applicable. However, we do report on our office paper purchases, including weight, volume and renewable materials used. We do not disclose data on the content of the packaging used in the products we sell.


75 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE. 
Energy. 
GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization SR page 33 Aggregate totals are reported.
GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization SR page 33 Aggregate totals are reported.
GRI 302-3 Energy intensity SR page 33. 
GRI 302-4 Reduction in energy consumption SR page 33. 
GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source SR page 37. 
Water and effluents. 
GRI 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts SR page 37. 
TELUS is subject to municipal water stewardship and are aligned with environmental regulations. Therefore, we do not monitor the quality of effluent discharge directly as the information is not available and extends beyond our regulatory requirements.
GRI 303-3 Water withdrawal SR page 37. 
TELUS is subject to municipal water stewardship and are aligned with environmental regulations. Therefore, we do not monitor the quality of effluent discharge directly as the information is not available and extends beyond our regulatory requirements.
Emissions. 
GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions SR page 34. 
GRI 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions SR page 34. 
GRI 305-3 Other Indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions SR page 35. 
GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SR page 34. 
GRI 305-5 Reduction in GHG emissions SR page 34. 
Effluents and waste. 
GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method SR page 36. 
GRI 306-3 Significant spills SR page 39. 
Environmental compliance. 
GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR page 38. 
Supplier environmental assessment. 
GRI 308-1 New suppliers screened using environmental criteria SR page 64. 
GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in supply chain and actions taken SR page 62-65. 
Number of suppliers assessed is disclosed but percentage unavailable due to data access issues for suppliers otherwise engaged.
Society. 
Employment. 
GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover SR page 52. 
Turnover by age group and gender uses a methodology described in the report and is only reported for domestic employees. Employee turnover rates for TI does not include temporary employees in the calculation.
GRI 401-2 Benefits provided SR page 52-54. 
Labour/Management relations. 
GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes SR page 57. 
The minimum of weeks notice provided are 3 weeks to a maximum of 12 months (for 95% of our unionized team members). However, some ADT collective agreements are still in negotiations/ mediation.
Occupational health and safety GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries SR page 55-56. 
TELUS reports LTA instead of the number and rate of high-consequence work-related injuries, and absenteeism instead of the total number of hours worked as these metrics provide the basis for our internal programs and more accurately reflect our performance.


76 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE. 
Training and education. 
GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee SR page 53. 
GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs SR page 52-53. 
GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. 
SR page 52. 
Diversity and equal opportunity. 
GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees. 
SR page 17-18, 60 ESG page 18-20. 
Employee data is broken out by age, gender and location. 
Non-discrimination GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken SR page 57-59. 
Freedom of association and collective bargaining. 
GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk SR page 57-59. 
Child labour GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour SR page 57-59 See our UNGC Communication on Progress.
Forced and compulsory labour. 
GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced and compulsory labour SR page 57-59 See our UNGC Communication on Progress.
Security practices GRI 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies and procedures SR page 57-59. 
Rights of Indigenous Peoples. 
GRI 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of Indigenous Peoples SR page 57-59 TELUS does not have human rights violations against Indigenous Peoples.
Human Rights assessment. 
GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments SR page 57-59. 
GRI 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures SR page 57-59. 
All team members receive annual ethics training which includes a review of our Respectful Workplace Policy and Human Rights. The specific number of hours required to complete this training is not tracked.
GRI 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. 
SR page 57-59. 
Supplier social assessment. 
GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria SR page 62. 
All new suppliers engaged through major procurement contractual templates have TELUS’ Supplier Code of Conduct included. Percentage unavailable due to data access issues for suppliers otherwise engaged.
GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken SR page 64. 
Numbers of suppliers assessed is disclosed but percentage unavailable due to data access issues for suppliers otherwise engaged.
Public policy GRI 415-1 Political contributions SR page 69. 
Customer health and safety. 
GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of products and service categories AR page 118-119. 
TELUS does not have a mechanism in place nor have we assessed or reported on lifecycle stages or health and safety of the products we sell. However, our products and services are approved by all legal/governing bodies relevant to the product or service that we provide.
Society – Marketing and labeling. 
GRI 417-1 Requirement for product and services information and labeling SR page 35-37 Percentage data not available.
GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications AIF page 27. 
From time to time there may be some certified or uncertified class action lawsuits with respect to non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship.
Customer privacy. 
GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 
SR page 66-67. 
Socioeconomic compliance. 
GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and/or regulations in the social and economic arena AIF page 27


77 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
SASB DISCLOSURE. 
TELUS 2020 SASB Disclosure. 
This index discloses against recommendations of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) – Telecommunication Services industry classification, where applicable to TELUS and provided such disclosure is not commercially sensitive.
Table 1: Sustainability disclosure topics and accounting metrics. 
Standard Activity Metric Measurement/Omission 2020 SASB Code. 
Environmental Footprint of Operations. 
Total energy consumed Gigajoules (GJ), Percentage (%) page 33 TC-TL - 130a.1. 
Environmental Footprint of Operations. 
Percentage grid electricity Gigajoules (GJ), Percentage (%) page 33 TC-TL - 130a.1. 
Environmental Footprint of Operations. 
Percentage renewable energy Gigajoules (GJ), Percentage (%) page 33 TC-TL - 130a.1. 
Data Privacy Description of policies and practices relating to behavioral advertising and customer privacy. 
Discussion page 66-69 TC-TL - 220a.1. 
Data Privacy Number of customers whose information is used for secondary purposes. 
TELUS uses customer personal information only for purposes for which we have the customer’s express or implied consent or as otherwise authorized or required by law.
N/A TC-TL - 220a.1. 
Data Privacy Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with customer privacy. 
This response reflects monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with TELUS customer privacy but does not include any legal fees or costs incurred to defend claims.
$0 TC-TL - 220a.2. 
Data Privacy (1) Number of law enforcement requests for customer information, (2) number of customers whose information was requested, (3) percentage resulting in disclosure. 
Number, Percentage (%) page 67 TC-TL - 220a.3. 
Data Security (1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage involving personally identifiable information (PII), (3) number of customers affected. 
Disclosure of the number of data breaches could be misleading, as some actions may not involve a company's direct fault (outside of a liability context), such as 3rd party breaches. Please refer to TELUS' Privacy Management Program Framework for more details on how TELUS safeguards customer data.
N/A TC-TL - 220a.4. 
Data Security Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risks, including use of third-party cybersecurity standards. 
Discussion page 66-69 TC-TL - 230a.1. 
Product End-of life Management (1) Materials recovered through take back programs, percentage of recovered materials (2) reused, (3) recycled, and (4) landfilled. 
Metric tons (t), Percentage (%) page 36 TC-TL - 440a.1. 
Competitive Behaviour and Open Internet. 
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with anticompetitive behavior regulations. 
Discussion 2020 Annual Information Form, section 10. 
TC-TL - 520a.1. 
Competitive Behaviour and Open Internet. 
Average actual sustained download speed of (1) owned and commercially-associated content and (2) non-associated content. 
Megabits per second (Mbps) page 12 TC-TL - 520a.2


78 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
SASB DISCLOSURE. 
Competitive Behaviour and Open Internet. 
Description of risks and opportunities associated with net neutrality, paid peering, zero rating, and related practices. 
Discussion page 68-69 TC-TL - 520a.3. 
Managing Systemic Risks 1) System average interruption frequency Total number of customer interruptions divided by total number of customers page 22 TC-TL - 550a.1. 
Managing Systemic Risks (2) customer average interruption duration Sum for all interruptions of the total downtime of each interruption multiplied by the number of customer accounts affected by each interruption page 22 TC-TL - 550a.1. 
Technology Disruptions. 
Discussion of systems to provide unimpeded service during service interruptions. 
Discussion page 22 TC-TL - 550a.2. 
Table 2. Activity Metrics. 
Standard Measurement 2020 SASB Code. 
Number of wireless subscribers Number 2020 Annual Report, page 18 TC-TL-000.A. 
Number of wireline subscribers Number 2020 Annual Report, page 20 TC-TL-000.B. 
Number of broadband subscribers Number 2020 Annual Report, page 20 TC-TL-000.C. 
Network traffic This information is considered to be competitively sensitive and is therefore not disclosed. 
TC-TL-000.D


79 • TELUS 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
CAUTION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. 
Caution regarding forward-looking statements. 
This sustainability report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include any statements that do not refer to historical facts and are typically identified by the words “goal”, “objective”, “plan”, “intend”, “strategy” and other similar expressions. They include, but are not limited to, statements in the report relating to our sustainability goals and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, and statements relating to our business plans and objectives such as statements about business continuity plans, investment in and expansion of our network, energy reduction initiatives, environmental remediation targets, and plans to implement best practices as we integrate acquired businesses.
By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties and are based on assumptions, including assumptions about future economic conditions and courses of action. These assumptions may ultimately prove to have been inaccurate and, as a result, our actual results or events may differ materially from our expectations expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements. There can be no assurance that TELUS will achieve its goals or objectives.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forwardlooking statements as a number of factors could also cause actual future performance and events to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to: • The COVID-19 pandemic • Regulatory developments and government decisions • The competitive environment • The impact of technological substitution • Capital expenditure levels and potential outlays for spectrum licenses • Economic performance in Canada • Our earnings and free cash flow • Business continuity events. 
Accordingly, this document is subject to the disclaimer and qualified by the assumptions, qualifications and risk factors described in detail in the annual Management’s discussion and analysis included in our 2020 Annual Report and in other TELUS public disclosure documents and in filings with securities regulatory authorities in Canada (on SEDAR at sedar.com) and in the United States (on EDGAR at sec.gov).
Except as required by law, TELUS disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this report are presented for the purpose of assisting our stakeholders in understanding certain of our sustainability goals and objectives in the context of our anticipated operating environment. Such information may not be appropriate for other purposes.
Many photos within this report were taken prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. For those photos taken during 2020, all necessary precautions were strictly followed. TELUS is committed to ensuring the health and safety of our team members, customers and communities.