2020. 
Sustainability Report


1. 
Sustainability Report 2020 2 Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability 65 Core Theme 1: Providing Safety and Security 41 Governance 120 Sustainability Management 155 Sustainability Library 90 Core Theme 2: Protecting the Earth 102 Core Theme 3: Supporting People. 
Top Message. 
Tokio Marine: Our Climate Strategy. 
Measures and Response to COVID-19. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability:
Continue to be Useful to Society through Our Business Activities. 
Relationship between Tokio Marine Group Initiatives and SDGs. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Initiatives. 
Stakeholder Engagement: Promoting Initiatives Together with Various Stakeholders. 
External Evaluations and Participation in Initiatives. 
Making Society Resilient to Natural Disasters. 
Building a Secure Society by Utilizing Traffic Technology Innovation. 
Increasing Safety in Daily Lives by Responding to Varying Lifestyles and Changes in Society. 
Eliminating Poverty in Society. 
Corporate Governance. 
Internal Control. 
Initiatives for Building a Decarbonized Society. 
Respect for Human Rights. 
Sustainability in the Value Chain. 
Promoting ESG Initiatives through the Provision of Products and Services. 
Creating a Society Where People Can Live with Security through Sustainable Investments and Financing. 
Improving Quality from the Customer’s Perspective. 
Promoting Environmental Management. 
Promoting Health and Productivity Management. 
Developing and Utilizing Diverse Human Resources. 
Overview of Group Sustainability Reporting. 
Sustainability Performance Data. 
Third-Party Assurance. 
GRI Standards Content Index. 
Recognition about ISO 26000. 
Editorial Policy. 
Preserving Biodiversity and Wetlands through Products and Services. 
Preventing Global Warming by Promoting the Development of Clean Energy. 
Building Communities for People to Live with Peace of Mind through Environmental. 
Protection Activities. 
Building a Society Based on Health and Longevity to Ensure Peace of Mind. 
Nurturing Generations Responsible for the Future. 
Aiming to Create a Symbiotic Society. 
CONTENTS 3
7 10 11 17 21 27 34 67 82 85 88 42 43 47 53 58 60 62 121 132 139 147 156 157 165 166 173 175 92 96 100 104 113 117 >>
Link to external website PDF file open Link to anchor point on this Report


2. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
We introduce Tokio Marine Group’s sustainability approach and strategies, sustainability promotion structure, stakeholder engagement, plans and results, external evaluations and participation in initiatives.
External Evaluations and Participation in Initiatives >>
We introduce external evaluations as well as our participation in initiatives.
Relationship between Group Initiatives and SDGs >>
Tokio Marine Group will contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) based on three activity themes.
Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives >>
We introduce our sustainability promotion structure and sustainability key items as well as the plans and results for the sustainability key items.
Stakeholder Engagement >>
We introduce our structure for stakeholder engagement and include specific examples. Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability:
Continue to be Useful to Society through Our Business Activities >>
We implement our corporate philosophy based on the Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter.
By identifying the material issues (referred as 'materiality') in each of the three core themes of “Providing Safety and Security,” “Protecting the Earth” and “Supporting People,” we are working toward value creation and aim to be a“ Good Company” trusted by all people and society.
Top Message >>
A message from Satoru Komiya, President and Group CEO. 
Our Climate Strategy >>
Tokio Marine Group’s basic approach to respond to such social issues as increasingly severe climate change and natural disasters. 
Measures and Response to COVID-19 >>
Tokio Marine Group’s initiatives toward COVID-19. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


3. 
First of all, let me express my heartfelt sympathies to everybody affected by COVID-19 and to those who suffered damage by natural disasters. Looking back, my first year as President and Group CEO was truly a tumultuous one. In 2019, Japan was struck by a series of major natural disasters for the second year in a row, which severely affected the lives of many citizens. Making matters worse, since the beginning of 2020 COVID-19 has grown into a global pandemic that is still claiming numerous precious lives across the globe. The proliferation of COVID-19 is wreaking havoc on society in ways not seen since the days of the Great Depression, as the Olympic Games and other events were postponed or cancelled and global economic activity came to a standstill.
As illustrated by these developments, we are now living in uncertain, turbulent, complex and unclear times, and the spread of COVID-19 has further aggravated society’s sense of uncertainty. People around the world have become deeply concerned about the sustainability of society and question their future safety and security. I feel that it is tough times like these when the purpose of corporate existence is called into question. Under these circumstances, recent years have witnessed calls for a shift to multi-stakeholder capitalism that contributes to all stakeholders.
Since its founding, Tokio Marine Group’s purpose (raison d’etre) has been to protect customers and local communities in times of need by providing them with safety and security, with the trust of customers as the starting point of all our activities. This founding purpose will remain unchanged in the future. In fact, over the last several months, Tokio Marine Group has adopted a variety of new approaches toward finding solutions to issues concerning COVID-19. Let me cite some examples. In Japan, Tokio Marine & Nichido provides coverage for specific infectious diseases but some of its products did not cover COVID-19. Addressing this situation, the company revised the scope of coverage of its policies for these infectious diseases to retroactively include COVID-19 upon controlling underwriting risk. Overseas, PT Tokio Marine Life Insurance Indonesia and Tokio Marine Life Insurance (Thailand) temporarily expedited payments, regardless of policy waiting periods, to. 
Toward a Safe, Secure and Sustainable Future. 
Top Message customers infected with COVID-19 for some medical insurance products that normally have waiting periods for insurance payments.
Although consistently providing all stakeholders with the kind of value demanded by each of them is no simple task, we will continue searching for ways to do so. We will keep up our efforts to become an even better company without being content with the status quo. Tokio Marine Group’s globally shared slogan “To Be a Good Company” incorporates this desire in the words “To Be.” In the years ahead, Tokio Marine’s unchanging purpose will be to protect our customers and local communities in their times of need by providing safety and security.
In working to realize this purpose, under our Mid-Term Business Plan “To Be a Good Company 2020,” we have set “Providing Safety and Security,” “Protecting the Earth” and “Supporting People” as our core themes and are working to solve social issues through the participation of all employees globally.
Our ever more self-motivated employees will act with integrity and compassion, and as this spreads throughout organizations and the entire Group, we believe that it will create a virtuous cycle of developing innovative products and services along with contributing to local communities and society as we work toward the creation of a sustainable future and to contribute to the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). By implementing these initiatives, we aim to become a “Good Company” that is trusted by all people and society.
There are demands for responding to increasing public interest in climate change and appropriately addressing risks to prevent and mitigate damages from natural disasters as well as for building safe and secure communities.
Tokio Marine Group remains committed to providing safety and security throughout its business activities to ensure it can properly support customers and society. These efforts include engaging in industry-academia collaborative research, creating value through a variety of products and services, participating in international initiatives, continuously supporting recovery efforts of disaster-stricken regions in collaboration with partners and conducting on-site Disaster Prevention Lessons for schoolchildren.
The prompt payment of insurance claims in times of emergencies such as natural disasters is of paramount importance. In fiscal 2019, a total of 22,000 employees in Japan made their utmost efforts to respond to insurance claims. In addition, Tokio Marine Group is promoting initiatives such as further accelerating insurance payments leveraging technology; developing insurance products. 
President and Group CEO Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc.
Satoru Komiya. 
Providing Safety and Security. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


4 that reflect the needs of disaster victims; providing information and services for disaster prevention and mitigation that go beyond just paying insurance claims; and providing early disaster recovery services. We will further accelerate the speed of these services in the future.
Industry-Academia Collaborative Research Responding to climate change and natural disasters is a high-priority issue for Tokio Marine Group from the perspective of enterprise risk management. Accordingly, Tokio Marine & Nichido has been promoting research on climate change and natural disaster risk through industry-academia collaborative research in cooperation with The University of Tokyo (since 2005), Nagoya University (since 2007), Tohoku University (since 2011) and Kyoto University (since 2012). In undertaking this research, Tokio Marine & Nichido strives to ascertain details of forecasts for damage caused by any natural disasters that could possibly occur in the future in order to share the outcomes of this research with society and promote disaster prevention awareness and education. In December 2019, we newly commissioned the Disaster Prevention Research Institute of Kyoto University to undertake research on the damage caused by Typhoon Jebi that made landfall in Japan in 2018. Going forward, we will continue and enhance industry-academia collaborative research and strive to utilize our research outcomes for sophisticating hazard maps in local communities and for other uses to raise safety and security in regional communities.
Creating Value through Products and Services Tokio Marine Group strives to quickly provide security to customers and communities through insurance and various services when disasters or accidents occur. Tokio Marine Group is distributing to customers videos with customized information on necessary insurance in preparation for disasters. The Group provides its corporate customers with expert advice to expedite business resumption and assist them in designing optimal business continuity plans (BCP).
Tokio Marine & Nichido also offers products that provide safety and security to people who had not necessarily been insured. These products include One Day Auto Insurance, which is aimed at reducing auto accidents involving uninsured drivers by encouraging young drivers who do not own vehicles to sign up for insurance. Furthermore, in March 2020 Tokio Marine & Nichido launched a new service utilizing artificial intelligence (AI) and driving recorders as a solution that significantly streamlines and accelerates accident responses and claims processing in our auto insurance business. This service marks the first time in Japan that an insurance company has aimed to enhance the driving safety and security of its customers by lending its original driving recorder as a rider on an auto insurance policy. This new service utilizes AI to recreate the accident scene in about five minutes using video from the recorder and then automatically determines the negligence ratio of the parties concerned based on legal precedents. Tokio Marine & Nichido is moving ahead in offering products and services that meet changes in customer needs and social issues. These include a comprehensive information website that will be useful for corporate cyber security measures.
Participation in International Initiatives To raise the resilience of society as a whole to natural disasters and contribute to problem-solving in time of disaster and mitigating damages, Tokio Marine Group participates in the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR) Private Sector Alliance for Disaster Resilient Societies (ARISE) as well as in ClimateWise and The Geneva Association’s Climate Change and Emerging. 
Environmental Topics working group, as we make efforts to promote global disaster prevention.
Earthquake Reconstruction Support and Disaster Prevention Awareness and Education Tokio Marine & Nichido is continuing to provide support to the Tohoku Region affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake through a variety of activities that include support of the Ten-Year Restoration Project of the Coastal Forests of Tohoku Region, volunteer reconstruction support activities by employees and agents in affected areas and offering lunch menus from disaster-stricken regions at employee cafeterias with charitable donations. These support efforts are driven by our determination to “never forget the event, under any circumstances, and continue to do whatever we can do even in any small way.” Additionally, to ensure future generations are prepared for the next disasters and can protect themselves, Tokio Marine & Nichido also actively holds Disaster Prevention Lessons conducted by employees who visit schools as volunteer instructors targeting mainly elementary school children. Along with our existing “Earthquake and Tsunami” edition, in fiscal 2019 we also released the “Water and Landslide Disasters” edition. Furthermore, although we are no longer able to visit schools for in-person Disaster Prevention Lessons due to COVID-19, we are proceeding with initiatives such as proposing online lessons as an option.
There are hopes that initiatives will be implemented such as for solving environmental and energy problems, preserving biodiversity, ecosystems and wetlands and creating a sustainable recyclingoriented society. Tokio Marine Group undertakes environmental protection activities in Japan and overseas through its products and services together with its customers and non-governmental organizations (NGO).
Additionally, Tokio Marine Group has implemented the ISO 14001 environmental management system and our unique Green Assist environmental management system to continually work to reduce the environmental footprint in our business activities. Tokio Marine Group will continue to promote a variety of initiatives for protecting the earth.
Creating Value through Products and Services Tokio Marine Group provides products and services that promote the widespread use of renewable energy, such as insurance products that support offshore wind power generation. As part of our efforts, in June 2020 we acquired GCube Insurance Services, a world-leading specialist renewable energy insurance underwriter. This acquisition will allow us to further support the growth of the renewable energy business field through our involvement in the insurance business.
While such new initiatives advance on one hand, Tokio Marine & Nichido continues to carry out the Green Gift Project*1 that was initiated in 2009 based on the concept of “implementing environmental protection activities together with customers,” and this project has been the driving force for mangrove planting. In October 2013, the scope of this project was expanded to include natural conservation activities throughout Japan. In this manner, we are supporting environmental protection activities in Japan and abroad as a member of society together with residents in each community. In October 2016, we changed the name of these environmental activities in Japan to. 
Protecting the Earth. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


5 the Green Gift Planet GENKI Program. In doing so, we aim to carry out activities that are close to our customers and local communities and make further efforts to promote environmental protection.
The Group’s initiatives for protecting the earth’s environment through our main businesses also extend across various nations. As one example, in 2015 U.S.-based Philadelphia Insurance Companies (PHLY) newly commenced the “PHLY 80K Trees” tree-planting program, which contributes to disaster prevention and mitigation in areas with frequent forest fires, inspired by Tokio Marine & Nichido’s Green Gift Project.
Our Passion Embodied in Mangrove Planting This year the Mangrove Planting Project marked its 21st year following its launch in 1999 together with an NGO involved in tree planting. It has now become a project that symbolizes the Group’s sustainability with the participation of Group employees in domestic and overseas volunteer treeplanting tours. As of the end of March 2020, a total of 11,240 hectares of mangrove forest have been planted, which in fiscal 2019 absorbed and fixed 130,000 tons of CO2, having generated total economic value exceeding 118.5 billion yen and brought positive effects to the mangrove forests and the approximately 1.41 million people living in the surrounding regions.
Mangroves play a diverse range of roles. These include mitigating the advance of global warming by absorbing and fixing CO2, preserving biodiversity and serving as a habitat and cradle of life for shellfish, shrimps, crabs and fish, and also functioning as green levees that protect communities from tsunamis and storms. Mangroves also provide fishery, forestry resources and other resources indispensable to the lives of residents in local communities and contribute to stabilizing and improving standards of living. In October 2019, we revised the Mangrove Planting 100-Year Declaration*2 introduced in 2007 and announced the Mangrove-based Value Co-Creation 100-Year Declaration. This revision reflects our aim of creating value by providing mangrove-based services together with NGOs involved in afforestation and other members of society. In keeping with our determination to meet the expectations of the international community, we also participated in the United Nations Community of Ocean Actions to Achieve Goal 14 of the SDGs.
Environmental Awareness and Education Tokio Marine Group promotes an array of environmental awareness and education activities that include Green Lessons that teach elementary school children about global environmental protection while enjoying mangrove-related programs. Other activities include holding the Marunouchi Citizens Environmental Forum, a social and environmental awareness seminar in which general applicants can participate.
The insurance business has been called a “people’s business.” For those of us who handle the intangible product of insurance, our employees and the trust built between people are everything. Valuing and continually supporting people are essential for Tokio Marine Group to earn the trust of all people and society, achieve sustainable growth and continuously create value for society. Therefore, Tokio Marine Group will make efforts to support a diverse range of people with initiatives that include creating value through products and services, promoting awareness and education for children who are responsible for the future of the earth and creating a symbiotic society by supporting the elderly, persons with disabilities and athletes.
Creating Value through Products and Services Tokio Marine Group is taking the knowledge in health management cultivated through its businesses and applying this at companies as insurance solutions. Additionally, we provide products that support healthy and secure lives for our customers, such as by developing insurance products that respond to needs associated with longer lifespans accompanying the declining birth rate and aging population and products for people with dementia and their families. In India, we provide weather insurance and microinsurance targeting farmers and low-income earners who suffer from poverty.
For Children, Who Will Lead the Future of the Earth Tokio Marine Group undertakes a variety of initiatives for children, who will lead the future of the earth. For example, Tokio Marine & Nichido is promoting youth development through a variety of programs. These include developing junior swimmers through support of the Japan Swimming Federation; helping young people grow, encouraging international cultural exchange and promoting sports in the local community through the Tokio Marine Kagami Memorial Foundation, Tokio Marine & Nichido Educational Development Fund and the Tokio Marine Sports Foundation; and providing support for the education of girls in low-income communities in India and Bangladesh via the NGO Room to Read. Through Group Work on Managing Risks and Opportunities, a career education program for junior high and senior high school students, Tokio Marine & Nichido is also providing them with Group Work on Managing Risks and Opportunities led by employees who are dispatched to schools and are accepting these students for company visits. In the future as well, Tokio Marine Group will promote initiatives for children, who will lead the future.
Support for the Elderly, Persons with Disabilities and Athletes by Creating a Symbiotic Society Tokio Marine Group supports the creation of a society where the elderly can live with a sense of security and where persons with disabilities can overcome their disabilities to play active roles. Examples of this support include conducting courses for employees to foster dementia care supporters, providing support for the Special Olympics through volunteers from Group companies in Japan and overseas, and supporting the Japan Deafblind Association. Additionally, since 2016 Tokio Marine Group has been supporting the Japanese Para-Sports Association and the Japan Inclusive Football Federation. Through initiatives in which employees “learn about,” “watch” and “experience” sports for persons with disabilities, we aim to promote the further spread and development of sports for persons with disabilities and thus help create a symbiotic society.
Tokio Marine Group supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, ILO Core Labour Standards, UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, as well as ISO 26000. Tokio Marine Group endorsed the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2005 and has promoted initiatives based on the UNGC’s Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. As a response to the. 
Strengthening Sustainability Management Supporting People. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


6 *1 Green Gift Project: This project offers customers an option to choose web-based insurance contracts (clauses) on our website rather than paper-based contracts in brochure form to reduce paper consumption. Tokio Marine & Nichido donates a portion of the amount saved through reduced paper use to support environmental protection activities in and outside Japan.
*2 Tokio Marine & Nichido declared in 2007 that it will aim to continue its mangrove planting project for 100 years that was started in 1999 to commemorate the 120th anniversary of its founding.
*3 Carbon neutral means that CO2 emitted in the course of a company’s business activities is equivalent to the converted volume of CO2 reduced by the use of natural energy and the acquisition of emissions credits by such a company and absorbed and fixed by way of mangrove planting.
UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, we have published the Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement for the fiscal year 2019. We also place great importance on the social role and responsibilities that the insurance industry is expected to fulfill, while Tokio Marine & Nichido is a signatory to the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) advocated by the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and is undertaking initiatives to create a sustainable society through its insurance business.
Additionally, Tokio Marine Asset Management and Tokio Marine & Nichido are signatories to PSI supported by the UN, and are also contributing to creating a sustainable society through investments.
Promoting Environmental Management—Reducing CO2 Emissions and Becoming Carbon Neutral Tokio Marine Group promotes such initiatives as conserving electricity and energy, raising business efficiency by using tablet devices and promoting paperless operations. At the same time, the entire Group (consolidated basis) achieved carbon neutral status*3 in fiscal 2011 as well as in the seven consecutive years from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2019. Tokio Marine & Nichido has also achieved this target for 11 consecutive years since 2009 by offsetting the CO2 emissions generated by its business activities with CO2 absorption and fixation through such means as the Mangrove Planting Project and acquisition of Tradable Green Certificates. In the future as well, Tokio Marine Group will continue efforts to reduce CO2 emissions and to realize carbon neutral status.
Appropriate Sustainability/ESG Information Disclosure Through our participation in international initiatives both as a founding member of the domestic Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) consortium and as a global company, Tokio Marine Holdings spearheads dialogue on climate change issues and discusses ways of financial information disclosure in accordance with TCFD.
To effectively communicate Tokio Marine Group’s initiatives for creating sustainable value, we are also working to enhance sustainability and ESG information disclosure through the publication of this Sustainability Report 2020, which provides detailed information on sustainability strategies along with various data, and the Integrated Annual Report 2020, published in August 2020 mainly for investors. I hope that both reports will enhance your understanding of the Group’s ESG initiatives.
In addition, Tokio Marine Group has disclosed Tokio Marine: Our Climate Strategy in this Sustainability Report 2020 and on its website. It lays out the Group’s stance of recognizing the impact of climate change and responding appropriately to changing situations.
Aiming for Sustainability with the Participation of All Employees Tokio Marine Group is a global insurance group with a dedicated, energetic and proactive workforce and organization, which is the wellspring of its competitiveness in each country and region and a crucial asset for contributing to the development of a sustainable society. Accordingly, we have defined our Diversity Policy as the creation of an environment that enables employees, who are working to solve social issues worldwide, to play active roles regardless of their nationality, gender, age or whether they have disabilities to further raise corporate value and realize sustainable growth. We will implement the Diversity Policy to promote diversity across the entire Tokio Marine Group.
Although only at the midpoint, a variety of our initiatives have already been recognized. For example, Tokio Marine Holdings was selected by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange as a Semi-Nadeshiko Brand for fiscal 2019.
Based on the concept that health and productivity management is the starting point for creating a “Good Company,” Tokio Marine Group formulated the Tokio Marine Group Wellness Charter and is creating mechanisms that enable customers and employees to live healthily both physically and mentally. These efforts were widely recognized and Tokio Marine Holdings was selected as a “2019 Health & Productivity Stock” (fifth consecutive year since 2016) by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
With the aim of fostering a corporate culture in which each and every employee strives to solve social issues as his/her own issue and ensure this helps raise corporate value and create social value, the “Tokio Marine Group CEO Recognition for Sustainability” was established in 2015 and commends and announces outstanding sustainability initiatives by Group companies and their employees in Japan and overseas. By promoting sustainability with the participation of all employees, in fiscal 2019 the employee participation rate (total) in community social contribution activities for Tokio Marine Group (domestic) was 143%. We therefore achieved the fiscal 2019 annual target of 100% (meaning the sum of the participation rate for each of the three core themes).
Tokio Marine Group will continuously focus on changes in the times of need of its customers and local communities and on how it will respond. We will remain attuned to these evolving needs and tackle challenges without fear of failure so that we can continue to provide value, remain trusted, keep getting chosen by people and achieve sustained growth. I will make my utmost efforts to create such a flexible and strong company.
My mission is none other than to make Tokio Marine Group a “Good Company” that works to resolve issues facing society and earns the widespread trust of its customers and society. This can only be achieved by harnessing the comprehensive power of the Group together with its employees in Japan and overseas and interacting and cooperating with its various stakeholders.
September 2020. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


7. 
Tokio Marine: Our Climate Strategy <Climate Strategy>
At Tokio Marine, the fundamental purpose of our business is to protect our customers and local communities by providing safety and security in times of need. With this in mind, we have made it our core identity "To Be a Good Company" – one that can still support customers and society in their times of need 100 years from now. From our long history in the insurance industry, we have accumulated knowledge and experience that has enabled us to not just provide safety and security, but to contribute to societal development as well. In continuing to contribute toward resolving societal issues, we help build a safe, secure and sustainable future that generates value for all of our stakeholders and our society more broadly.
Climate change is a global challenge that poses risks to the safety and security of our customers and society. The potential for the intensification and increased scale and frequency of severe weather and natural disasters poses a direct impact on the insurance industry. This makes climate change a top-priority issue that we must address head-on not only for our insurance business, which is our principal business, but also in our role as an institutional investor and as a global company. To that end, Tokio Marine is committed to implementing actions that help facilitate the transition to a low- carbon future. These actions will be based on the constructive dialogues and collaboration that. 
Tokio Marine has with international organizations, governments, industries, academic institutions, civil society, and other groups and industries, and will be aimed at achieving the 2-degree Celsius target set in the Paris Agreement adopted at COP21 of the United Nations Framework Convention on. 
Climate Change in 2015.
Below, we discuss the strategy we have in place to identify and manage the impacts that climate change can have on our business and our society, and Tokio Marine’s commitments and actions to support the low-carbon transition through our business activities.
<Governance> Tokio Marine Holdings identifies and assesses climate change-related risks and opportunities as part of the development process of the Group’s sustainability strategy, which is developed by a dedicated sustainability team within the organization. Our Board of Directors plays an important role in overseeing Tokio Marine’s strategic approach to sustainability matters. The Board approves the. 
Group’s sustainability policy, which includes our approach to climate change, and regularly monitors and evaluates the implementation of our near- and longer-term sustainability plans.
<Effective Management of Risks and Opportunities>
Effective and ongoing monitoring and management of climate-related risks and opportunities is elemental to Tokio Marine’s capability to serve the current and future needs of our customers and to create sustainable long-term value. Tokio Marine manages risks through our Enterprise Risk. 
Management system, which takes into account climate-related risks. We also recognize that climate change may create new opportunities to enhance our products and services that respond to evolving customer needs and drive new value creation. Climate change poses various risks and opportunities to our business, primarily:
Physical risks. 
Climate change has the potential to increase the frequency and scale of weather disasters, which poses risks to our non-life insurance businesses and companies with global operations like ours.
This may also impact our ability to use historical data to effectively calculate premium rates and plan for payouts for future large-scale disasters. To enhance our ERM process and ensure we are adequately identifying and responding to emerging risks, Tokio Marine conducts scenario analysis using Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) scenarios to analyze the potential impact of climate on our business.
Transition risks. 
As the global momentum toward decarbonization accelerates, we anticipate that regulatory shifts, technological innovation, and asset value fluctuations may alter our business and investment environment and reshape customer needs for new or different products. We recognize that as a business we must flexibly respond to these changes, and are developing and offering products and services that cater to these diverse changes. The relatively short periods of non-life insurance contracts strengthens our ability to remain agile in addressing these risks through our products.
Opportunities. 
Meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement will escalate the necessity for a diverse mix of power sources. This could lead to a growth in demand for insurance products that serve the renewables industry, including solar, geothermal, and onshore and offshore wind power. To adequately respond to this transition, we intend to enhance our risk evaluation practices in this area, and develop and offer an expanded array of insurance products for renewable energy businesses.
<Accounting for Climate Change in our Business Strategy>
Our core business is to provide solutions to protect our customers and society in their times of need, and we recognize that climate change will shape those needs. It is therefore critical that Tokio Marine take steps to identify and translate emerging risks into products and services that fit the evolving needs of our customers. It is equally as important that we seek opportunities to create solutions that support the transition to a low-carbon society. We are doing so through our insurance underwriting. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


8 practices, investment and lending business.
Insurance underwriting. 
We recognize the importance of addressing the environmental and social impacts of our core business and are committed to underwriting practices that will enable us to contribute to a transition to a decarbonized society. As part of that commitment, Tokio Marine will not provide new insurance underwriting capacities to coal fired power generation projects. We may grant exceptions for projects on account of circumstances such as national energy policy and other considerations in the relevant country, and in the context of the OECD Arrangement on Officially Supported Export. 
Credits and other international guidelines. Our comprehensive decision-making process will also take into account other factors such as the availability of other options and alternative technologies.
We will also engage existing customers to help advance environmental measures such as the use of advanced, highly-efficient power generation technologies or carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) technologies [which can reduce or eliminate greenhouse gas emissions].
We also support sustainable growth and the transition to a decarbonized society by providing insurance underwriting capacities for renewable energy businesses such as solar and wind power companies through specialized products. We also make strategic acquisitions of companies with expertise in this area to accelerate our efforts to expand our business in this area.
Our underwriting policy enables Tokio Marine to further support the low-carbon transition while effectively managing risk, serving our clients and aligning with the priorities and plans codified within Japan’s energy policies.
Investments and Lending. 
With respect to investment and lending, Tokio Marine will not provide new financing for coal fired power generation projects. However, as with our underwriting policy, we may take into account individual circumstances when making investment and lending decisions. As a signatory to the United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), our investment and lending policy is developed in consideration of both financial and environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria and is implemented through our Group companies Tokio Marine & Nichido and Tokio Marine Asset Management. Through these actions we support the integration of ESG and climate-related factors into our investment decision-making process. As an asset manager,
Tokio Marine Asset Management maintains a Responsible Investment Committee comprising the heads of investment in each asset class to promote stewardship and active engagement around ESG topics.
Products and Services. 
As a global insurer, Tokio Marine has a significant amount of expertise through our ongoing monitoring of emerging risks and research on climate change and weather disaster risk in collaboration with the world’s leading scientists and researchers. We translate this expertise into insurance products and related services to serve customers and local communities that support the transition to a decarbonized society: • We offer insurance products for solar, wind, biomass, geothermal, and hydroelectric power generation in order to promote the utilization of renewable energy, and actively provide support for such power-generation initiatives. Our products include the Mega-Solar Package Program for solar power businesses, Geothermal Package Plan for geothermal power businesses, and Offshore Wind. 
Power Package Insurance • Within our asset management we offer specialized renewable energy funds, such as our Solar Energy fund launched in 2012 that supports investments in solar plants. 
In June 2020 we announced the completion of our strategic acquisition of GCube, a specialist renewable energy underwriter with a long track record of offering insurance products and services in the U.S., Europe and globally. This acquisition deepens our in-house expertise in renewable energy insurance and enables us to bring more products to market in support of a low-carbon transition.
<Providing Leadership for a Low-Carbon Future>
Addressing the global challenge of climate change and the transition to a low-carbon economy requires collaboration among all stakeholders. Tokio Marine has sought to be a leader among the business community in addressing climate change across multiple fronts, including:
Advancing domestic and international sustainability initiatives As a major global insurer, Tokio Marine Group is using its position to support domestic and international initiatives to advance environmental sustainability and address climate change, and we are proud of our legacy of leadership. Since its launch in 2008, Tokio Marine has been co-chairing the Geneva Association’s climate change initiatives (now under the Climate Change and Emerging Environmental Topics project), and providing leadership in supporting the global insurance industry in incorporating climate change considerations in corporate strategy and risk management.
Tokio Marine Holdings was an original member of and signatory to the Task Force on Climate-
Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and has continued to demonstrate support of the TCFD recommendations through advocacy and in our own disclosure. We were also a founding signatory to the UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative’s Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) and a founding member of the PSI’s TCFD Insurer Pilot Group.
We also believe that it is important for businesses to participate in the development of regulatory and policy responses to climate change and environmental issues. To that end Tokio Marine has been an active contributor to domestic and international policy dialogues on climate-related issues, including those that led to the 2019 publication by the Government of Japan's Long-Term Strategy. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


9. 
Under the Paris Agreement, which establishes a vision and actions to support the achievement of a "decarbonized society". The Strategy identified TCFD as one of the pillars to mobilizing green finance nationally, which led to the launch of the TCFD Consortium of Japan in May 2019. Tokio. 
Marine was one of the founders of the Consortium, and remains actively involved as a member of the. 
Steering Committee to advance climate-related disclosure practices in Japan pursuant to the TCFD recommendations.
Advancing science and research. 
Tokio Marine has been collaborating with various leading academic research institutions, including the University of Tokyo, Nagoya University, Kyoto University, and Tohoku University to conduct research on climate change and natural disaster risks since 2005. In addition to integrating this research into our own business and management strategy, we share this research through our partnerships with individual and corporate customers, local governments, non-governmental organizations and international organizations. We also hold annual seminars on natural disaster risks where we invite hundreds of corporate customers and officials to share the latest findings from our research activities.
Supporting climate resilience for society through our business. 
Our business purpose to provide safety and security extends beyond just the provision of insurance products – we can also leverage our expertise to help minimize damage in the event of a large-scale natural disaster and facilitate recovery. We are currently working on the development of new disaster prevention/mitigation solutions in collaboration with the National Research Institute for Earth Science and Disaster Resilience, among other organizations.
In the Asia-Pacific region, Tokio Marine has been representing the private sector to support the innovation and promotion of disaster risk financing and insurance (DRFI) under the auspices of. 
Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC)’s Finance Ministers Process (FMP) since 2015. DRFI was identified as one of its priority policy issues under the Cebu Action Plan, a roadmap for a sustainable financial future for the Asia-Pacific region, and helps to build resilience in communities subject to increasingly severe weather disasters.
In our own operations, we set targets for our operational emissions to guide us in addressing our own climate impact. For 2020, Tokio Marine & Nichido has set a target of a 40% reduction in CO2 emissions compared with the 2006 baseline. It also maintains a long-term target of a 60% CO2 emissions reduction by 2050 compared with the 2006 baseline.
Tokio Marine is proud to have achieved carbon neutral status in our operations for seven consecutive years since fiscal 2013. We have achieved this in part through our longstanding mangrove planting project in the Asia Pacific region, which not only revitalizes a threatened ecosystem but also offsets our carbon emissions through the absorption and retention of CO2 emissions. We started mangrove planting in 1999 and have planted mangroves on 11,240 hectares across nine Asia-Pacific countries as of March 31, 2020. The estimated cumulative economic value of the ecosystem services generated from the planting of mangrove trees for twenty years from April 1999 to March 2019 is over 118.5 billion yen. In addition, in October 2019, Tokio Marine Group participated in the United. 
Nations Communities of Ocean Action for supporting implementation of SDG14 and announced the. 
Mangrove-based Value Co-creation 100-Year Declaration which is designed to create value through the provision of solutions based on mangrove trees. In addition, we have adopted energy-saving measures, reduced our energy consumption, promoted the Eco Safety Drive Project, and increased the utilization of recycled parts.
We recognize that climate change will have far-ranging impacts on our business and on society, and that we must effectively adapt to this evolving landscape. We are dedicated to addressing climate risk and opportunity within our business by working with our customers to identify solutions to fit their evolving needs, engaging in national and international dialogues to advance the international response to climate change and the low-carbon transition, and supporting the low-carbon transition in our own operations and through our business activities.
For further details on our climate-related actions and initiatives, please refer to our Sustainability. 
Report, Integrated Annual Report, and climate-related disclosures referring to the recommendations of the TCFD.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


10. 
Measures and Response to COVID-19. 
To sustain its function integral to social infrastructure, Tokio Marine Group is continuing to undertake critical operations, including receiving loss reports, paying insurance claims and protecting insurance policies, while working to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and ensure the safety of employees. Tokio Marine & Nichido has implemented emergency measures for policyholders affected by COVID-19 to extend the period allowed for contract procedures and grace period for premium payments. For compulsory auto liability insurance, the company has extended the period for changing the insured vehicle or canceling the policy upon vehicle replacement; the period for policy renewal to match the effective period of vehicle inspection certificates extended by the government; and grace period for premium payments. For accident insurance, Super Business Insurance (liability clause) and other products that cover Classes I to III infectious diseases specified in Japan’s Infectious Diseases Act, the company has expanded the scope of coverage to include COVID-19. For overseas travel insurance with coverage for diseases, the requirement for the period from the end of policy duration to the start of medical treatment has been relaxed from within 72 hours to within 30 days for COVID-19. The company has also expanded the definition of hospitalization under its medical and other insurance and decided to pay hospitalization and related benefits to cases in which COVID-19 patients stay at temporary facilities (including hotels) or at home as per doctor’s instructions and receive treatments comparable to those provided by hospitals. (As of July 1, 2020) ■ Donations by Tokio Marine & Nichido and Its Employees Tokio Marine & Nichido has donated face masks stockpiled in-house to medical institutions supporting local medical systems. The company also solicited monetary donations from employees to support people affected by COVID-19. Tokio Marine Holdings then matched the amount and donated a total of 10.7 million yen in August 2020.
<Reference: Recipients and Purposes> • UTokyo Foundation (The University of Tokyo) Medical measures against COVID-19 (including development of curative drugs and vaccines, measures to prevent infection and improvement of the medical care system of the university) • NGO Doctors Without Borders Japan Emergency aid activities for COVID-19 and other aid activities (including medical assistance) to counter the effects of the spreading coronavirus, both being undertaken across the world • Central Community Chest of Japan / Red Feather Community Chest Helping organizations supporting people affected by COVID-19 in Japan, including food banks supporting children and their families facing temporary school closures and organizations providing emergency support for people who have lost their jobs and homes because of their aggravated economic situations and for children who are victims of abuse and cannot stay at home • NPO Association for Aid and Relief, Japan (AAR Japan) Supplying face masks and other hygiene products to persons with disabilities and welfare workers to support their efforts against COVID-19 • General Incorporated Foundation Ashinaga Providing financial support to orphaned children, whose households have faced reduced income and become financially challenged due to the spread of COVID-19 ■ Providing “Medical Note,” an Online Medical Consultation Service To prevent the spread of COVID-19 and enable customers who are worried about their own and their families’ health conditions to consult and ask questions to healthcare professionals from home, Tokio Marine & Nichido and Tokio Marine & Nichido Life provided the “Medical Note” service to customers free of charge from April 15 to June 30, 2020. It is an online medical consultation service of MedicalNote Inc., a capital and business alliance partner of Tokio Marine Holdings. More specifically, “Medical Note” is an online service*1 that allows people who are worried about their symptoms to easily, directly and individually consult and ask questions to healthcare professionals, mainly medical specialists, from their personal computers and smartphones. Customers who used the service during the said period provided positive feedback, saying that advice was to the point, reliable and quick and that the service eliminated their anxiety during the time when it was difficult to visit hospitals. With regard to our Medical Assist*2 consultation service that comes with our insurance products, Tokio Marine & Nichido Medical Service continues to provide medical consultation over the telephone. As for COVID-19, we have been responding to customers seeking advice from these services in accordance with the policy of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) issued to the health departments in each prefecture as well as the guidelines of the National Institute of Infectious Diseases, instructing those suspected of being infected with the novel coronavirus to consult a COVID-19 consultation center.
*1 This service is provided within the scope of remote health and healthcare consultations as defined in MHLW’s guidelines for appropriate online medical consultations.
*2 This service is for policyholders of Tokio Marine & Nichido (excluding companies), insured persons (excluding companies) and their respective families (spouses, blood relatives within the sixth degree and relatives by marriage within the third degree) and for policyholders of Tokio Marine & Nichido Life (excluding companies), insured persons and their respective families (spouses, blood relatives within the sixth degree and relatives by marriage within the third degree).
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


11. 
Tokio Marine Group's Approach to Sustainability: Continue to be Useful to Society through Our Business Activities. 
Aiming to Be a “Good Company” Trusted by All People and Society Our basic approach to being a “Good Company” is to be “a company trusted by all people and society by supporting customers and society in times of need.”
Tokio Marine Group has provided “safety and security” to society and contributed to its development by making the most of its abundant knowledge and experience accumulated over the years in the insurance industry. In the future as well, we will work to solve various social issues and continuously raise the Group’s corporate value while contributing to a safe, secure and sustainable future. By doing so, we aim to become a “Good Company” that is trusted by all people and society.
Executing Our Corporate Philosophy Based on the Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter For Tokio Marine Group, sustainability represents the implementation of the Corporate Philosophy. In keeping with the Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter, which serves as behavioral guidelines for implementing sustainability, all our self-motivated employees will continually act with integrity and compassion using their unique ideas to provide stakeholders with even better value.
Respect for International Codes of Conduct and Human Rights Tokio Marine Group supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, ILO Core Labour Standards, UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, as well as ISO 26000. The ideas and contents of the Ten Principles concerning human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption advocated by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) coincide with Tokio Marine Group’s own approach to sustainability as well as its Sustainability Charter. Therefore, Tokio Marine Holdings has been participating in the UNGC since 2005.
■ Tokio Marine Group Corporate Philosophy With customer trust as the foundation of all its activities, Tokio Marine Group continuously strives to raise its corporate value.
■ Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter Tokio Marine Group is committed to fulfilling its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) by implementing its Corporate Philosophy to achieve sustainable growth together with the development of society in accordance with the following principles: • Products and Services We aim to provide society with products and services to meet its needs for safety and security. • Respect for Human Rights and Dignity We respect and actively promote the recognition of human rights. We strive to ensure an energetic working environment that is both safe and healthy and to promote training and education of our employees. We respect the right to privacy and strive to enforce sound information management and control. • Protection of the Global Environment Acknowledging that the protection of the global environment is an important responsibility for all corporate entities, we respect the harmonization with and the improvement of the global environment in all of our activities. • Contribution to Local Communities and Societies As a member of various communities and societies, we respect the diversity of cultures and customs and we aim to contribute actively to the needs of the current era. • Compliance While striving to maintain high ethical standards at all times, we will pursue strict compliance in all aspects of our business activities. • Communication We intend to disclose information timely and appropriately and to promote dialogue with all our stakeholders to ensure effective corporate management.
Tokio Marine Group's Approach to Sustainability. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


12. 
Tokio Marine Group’s self-motivated employees act with integrity and compassion, and as this spreads throughout organizations and the Group, we believe that it will create a virtuous cycle of developing innovative products and services along with contributing to local communities and society. Moreover, this cycle will lead to the sustainable growth of the Group. These efforts will serve as a bridge to our children and to future generations as we seek to transform risks into opportunities and create value for a safe, secure and sustainable future.
Tokio Marine Group has set the three core themes of “Providing Safety and Security,” “Protecting the Earth” and “Supporting People” under its Mid-Term Business Plan “To Be a Good Company 2020” (FY2018 – FY2020). Initiatives to address social issues are being promoted with the participation of all employees based on these core themes.
Accordingly, we have been implementing sustainability activities across a wide range extending from the provision of products and services to corporate citizenship activities. We will also communicate our principal sustainability initiatives to society through this Sustainability Report while also promoting easily understandable measures to permeate these initiatives within the Group.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability Approach in Aiming To Be a “Good Company”
Addressing Social Issues Based on Three Core Themes with the Participation of All Employees ◉ Core Theme 1: Providing Safety and Security ◉ Core Theme 2: Protecting the Earth ◉ Core Theme 3: Supporting People. 
The world is now facing various social issues, inflicted by frequent large-scale natural disasters, demographic shifts, income disparities and poverty. In Japan as well, issues are becoming prevalent also in relation with technological innovation as well as community resilience (disaster prevention and mitigation) and the country’s declining birth rate and aging population. These issues may induce drastic changes in risks surrounding the insurance business.
To protect customers and society from these risks, Tokio Marine Group has selected “Providing Safety and Security” as one of its three core themes and is making efforts toward a safe, secure and sustainable future throughout its entire business operations.
The global issues of “climate change and natural disasters” and “depletion of biodiversity and wetlands” pose serious risks for the children not only of today but also of the future and at the same time have a significant impact on the business of Tokio Marine Group.
Having set “Protecting the Earth” as a core theme, Tokio Marine Group works to provide products and services that are designed to mitigate or adapt to climate change and protect biodiversity, reduce environmental footprint in business activities, become carbon neutral, conduct environmental protection activities in Japan and overseas, and promote environmental awareness raising and education. Our aim is to contribute to preservation of the global environment and the creation of environmental value.
In Japan, the importance of responding to the nursing and health needs of the elderly is increasing due to the low birth rate and aging society. There is also growing demand to create societies in which people in underprivileged circumstances and those with disabilities can live with peace of mind in the community as economies and societies become more sophisticated and globalization progresses. In addition, there are calls for the acceptance, promotion and utilization of diversity in such areas as gender, age and nationality. On a global scale, the reality is that there is growing income disparity, increasing unemployment among youth, poverty and unequal opportunities for education based on gender.
Tokio Marine Group has set “Supporting People” as a core theme in order to take up the challenge of resolving these issues. To this end, we will promote local community and social contribution activities supporting people through the growth of young people and support the elderly, persons with disabilities and athletes as well as contribute to the realization of a symbiotic society in which everyone can live with peace of mind by promoting diversity and inclusion.
Value Creation. 
Value Creation. 
Value Creation. 
Providing Safety and Security to Customers, Local Communities and Society Worldwide through the Insurance Business. 
Contributing to a Sustainable Global Environment. 
Supporting Local Communities and Society and Creating an Inclusive Society. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


13 ◉ Governance – A Resilient, Highly Sound and Transparent Management Structure ◉Sustainability Management. 
Tokio Marine Group is implementing initiatives throughout its entire business activities that are focused on its three core themes. To earn the trust of all people and society and achieve sustainable growth, Tokio Marine Group must raise the quality of initiatives for “business strategies,” “governance” and “social responsibility” and build a structure for resilient, highly sound and transparent management as a global insurance group.
Accordingly, as initiatives serving as the basis of such a management structure, Tokio Marine Group is making efforts for compliance, fraud prevention, information security, privacy, respect for human rights, sustainability in the value chain and sustainable investment.
Through these initiatives, Tokio Marine Group will meet the expectations of stakeholders, beginning with continuously enhancing shareholder value.
Tokio Marine Group is implementing initiatives throughout its entire business activities that are focused on its three core themes and to earn the trust of all people and society and achieve sustainable growth it must strengthen sustainability management with the aim of becoming a “Good Company.” Tokio Marine Group is promoting sustainability management from the four perspectives of customers, the environment, health and human resources.
With the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in September 2015, there are rising expectations that companies will work toward realizing an even more sustainable and highly resilient world. In collaboration with stakeholders, Tokio Marine Group is leveraging its expertise and knowhow in insurance and risk management to contribute to the resolving of various societal issues that include the frequent occurrence of large-scale natural disasters, shifting demographics, the changing environment resulting from technological innovation and poverty.
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Materiality (Material Issues) Tokio Marine Group identified sustainability issues for each of the three core themes and governance and specified their sustainability materiality (material issues). We will promote initiatives by reflecting the identified sustainability materiality in the Group’s sustainability strategy and targets.
Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality: What Types of Issues Are We Addressing?
Process for Identifying Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Materiality. 
Tokio Marine Group uses the following process to implement the “Disclosure 102-46: Defining report content and topic Boundaries” in “Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards.” 1. Identifying Related Issues The Group identified sustainbility issues that are subject to examination giving consideration to ways of contributing to sustainability issues unique to the insurance and financial businesses and meeting the expectations of stakeholders in the future. In this examination, we analyzed the Group’s value chain and identified sustainability issues in each core theme giving consideration to stakeholder interests and expectations brought up during stakeholder engagement.
Value Chain and Sustainability Issues >> Stakeholder Engagement >> Sustainability Library (Related Materials) Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Materiality >> 2. Prioritization of Issues Tokio Marine Group identified Group sustainability initiatives by analyzing “Feedback from stakeholder engagement (sustainability dialogue) with customers, shareholders, investors, employees, agents, business partners, local communities and societies,” “Sustainability issues and responses to a changing business environment surrounding the Group,” and “Relation to Tokio Marine Group’s corporate principle and management vision” from the dual perspectives of “significant impact on stakeholder evaluations and decision-making (impact on stakeholders)” and “significant impact of organizations on the economy, the environment and society (impact on business)” and then identified the priority of material sustainability issues and sustainability issues subject to disclosure.
Value Chain and Sustainability Issues >> Stakeholder Engagement >> Sustainability Library (Related Materials) Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability Materiality >> 3. Confirming the Validity of Material Issues The comprehensiveness of sustainability issues subject to examination, the relevance to core sustainability themes, Sustainability Materiality (Material Issues) and the validity of sustainability issues subject to disclosure are confirmed at sustainability dialogues (meetings for dialogue and opinion exchanges between experts and Group management) and ultimately the approval of management is obtained.
Stakeholder Engagement (Sustainability Dialogue) >> 4. Review The Sustainability Board, which consists of presidents of major Group companies, periodically reviews the state of initiatives for Sustainability Materiality (Material Issues). Third-party assurance will be obtained from an independent external verification authority for core sustainability themes and information will be disclosed in the Sustainability Report.
Value Creation. 
Value Creation. 
Continuously Enhancing Shareholder Value. 
Developing Employees and Partners Who Bring a Virtuous Cycle. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


14 ● Sustainability Materiality (Material Issues) ○ Sustainability issues subject to disclosure * Sustainability issues are underlined. 
Value Chain and Sustainability Issues. 
Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Materiality (Material Issues) Matrix. 
Sustainability. 
Core Theme. 
Principal Stakeholders in the Value Chain. 
Shareholders and Investors Employees (Group Activities)
Insurance Agents and Business Partners Customers Local Communities and Societies, Research Institutes. 
Core Theme 1 Providing Safety and Security. 
Providing safety and security to customers, local communities and society worldwide through the insurance business ● Providing sustainable products and services beneficial for safety and security ● Products and services beneficial for safety and security in response to disasters, security and an aging society ○ Insurance that responds to low birth rates and aging societies, and changing population demographics ● Local community, social contribution and awarenessraising activities that realize security and safety ● Promoting ESG initiatives through the provision of products and services to respond to poverty ● Nurturing generations responsible for the future through sports promotion ● Climate change and natural disasters research ○ Responding to customer needs and changes in risk resulting from various technological innovations ● Promoting ESG initiatives through the provision of products and services in collaboration with business partners ● Raising brand strength by promoting ESG initiatives through the provision of products and services ● Promoting understanding of products and services improving quality from the customer’s perspective. 
Core Theme 2 Protecting the Earth. 
Contributing to a sustainable global environment ● Promoting environment management through the provision of environment-friendly products ● Local community, social contribution and awarenessraising activities that lead to the protection of the global environment ● Social contribution activities that deter climate change and natural disasters ● Insurance products for responding to climate change and natural disasters ○ Improving business efficiency through information systems that utilize technological innovation ● Promoting ESG initiatives through the provision of products and services by promoting environmental protection activities of business partners ● Insurance products that respond to climate change and natural disasters ○ Awarenessraising and education of consumers through the promotion of web-based insurance contracts (clauses) ○ Reduction of environmental footprint and achieve carbon neutral status. 
Core Theme 3 Supporting People. 
Developing employees and partners who support and bring a virtuous cycle to local communities and society ● Local community, social contribution and awarenessraising activities that address low birth rates and aging societies, and population demographics ● Developing and utilizing diverse human resources aimed at realizing a company that develops the top people in Japan ● Promoting ESG initiatives through the provision of products and services by maintaining good working conditions at business partners ●Improving quality from the customer’s perspective that responds to technological innovation such as web-based sales ○ Education activities through an insurance guidebook ● Local community, social contribution and awarenessraising activities that support youth, the elderly, persons with disabilities and athletes ● Responding to low birth rates and aging societies, and population demographics by nurturing generations responsible for the future ● Building a society in which the elderly can live with peace of mind by responding to needs for nursing and dementia care ● Promoting diversity and inclusion throughout the Group ● Developing and utilizing diverse human resources in response to technological innovation ○ Fair labor practices that emphasize dialogue aimed at promoting the health of employees. 
Governance–Strengthening Sustainability Management. 
Continuously enhancing shareholder value ● Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) ● Corporate governance/Internal control ○ Strengthening of international supervisory regulations ○Changes in the global economy and financial environment ● Generate and distribute economic value ○ Anti-corruption ○ Evaluation of human rights and anti discrimination ○ Grievance resolution. 
Click the image to enlarge. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


15. 
Materiality (Material Issue) and Corresponding Description in the Sustainability Report. 
Materiality (Material Issue) Corresponding Description in the Sustainability Report. 
Corporate governance. 
Governance. 
Corporate Governance, Internal Control. 
Anti-corruption Internal Control (Compliance, Anti-Corruption)
Information security Internal Control (Information Security)
Enterprise risk management, risk management Internal Control (Risk Management)
Respect for human rights, anti-discrimination Respect for Human Rights. 
Promoting ESG initiatives in the supply chain and value chain. 
Sustainability in the value chain Sustainability in the Value Chain. 
Promoting ESG initiatives through the provision of products and services Promoting ESG Initiatives through the Provision of Products and Services. 
Sustainable investments Creating a Society Where People Can Live with Security through Sustainable Investments and Financing. 
Products and services beneficial for safety and security. 
Study on extreme weather events; support for disaster recovery and business continuity. 
Core Theme 1. 
Making Society Resilient to Natural Disasters. 
Participation in demonstration tests on public roads; auto insurance; safe driving Building a Secure Society by Utilizing Traffic Technology Innovation. 
Inbound business; utilization of smartphones Increasing Safety in Daily Lives by Responding to Varying Lifestyles and Changes in Society. 
Microinsurance Eliminating Poverty in Society. 
Integrated insurance services relating to medical treatment, household economy, longevity and health; support for health and productivity management Core Theme 3 Building a Society Based on Health and Longevity to Ensure Peace of Mind. 
Protection of the global environment through products and services. 
Green Gift Project. 
Core Theme 2. 
Preserving Biodiversity and Wetlands through Products and Services. 
Development of clean energy Preventing Global Warming by Promoting the Development of Clean Energy. 
Local community, social contribution and awarenessraising activities. 
Disaster prevention; recovery from disasters. 
Core Theme 1. 
Making Society Resilient to Natural Disasters. 
Crime and disaster prevention; traffic safety Building a Secure Society by Utilizing Traffic Technology Innovation. 
Mangrove planting, etc.
Core Theme 2. 
Preserving Biodiversity and Wetlands through Products and Services. 
Protection activities in Japan and overseas Building Communities for People to Live with Peace of Mind through Environmental Protection Activities. 
Health promotion (cancer, incurable diseases); nursing care; prevention of infectious diseases. 
Core Theme 3. 
Building a Society Based on Health and Longevity to Ensure Peace of Mind. 
Nurturing generations responsible for the future Nurturing Generations Responsible for the Future. 
The elderly, persons with disabilities and gender Aiming to Create a Symbiotic Society. 
Improving quality from the customer’s perspective (grievance resolution)
Sustainability Management. 
Improving Quality from the Customer’s Perspective. 
Promotion of environmental management and achieving carbon neutral status Promoting Environmental Management. 
Health and productivity management Promoting Health and Productivity Management. 
Developing and utilizing diverse human resources Developing and Utilizing Diverse Human Resources. 
Generation and distribution of economic value Sustainability Library. 
Sustainability Issues and Responses to a Changing Business Environment Surrounding the Group. 
We expect the insurance business environment to change significantly over the medium to long term due to a number of factors including the unprecedented pace of technological development, more frequent natural catastrophes, demographic shifts in the Japanese market and an increase in global oversight and regulation.
By proactively grasping these changes in the environment, we plan to refine our business strategy and advance our business platform that supports the creation of corporate value. Furthermore, by offering solutions to issues faced by stakeholders arising from changes in the business environment, we will provide safety and security to our stakeholders while striving to raise the competitiveness of the Group.
From such a perspective, we analyzed and prepared responses to sustainability issues and changes in the business environment surrounding the Group to deepen discussion of ways to resolve issues faced by stakeholders arising from changes in the business environment from the perspective of sustainability matters. With these prepared responses serving as a starting point, we will further enhance our sustainability activities.
Core Theme 1: Providing Safety and Security; Core Theme 2: Protecting the Earth; Core Theme 3: Supporting People. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


16. 
Climate Change and Increase in Natural Disasters. 
Changes in Customer Needs and Risk due to Diverse Technological Innovation. 
Changes in the Global Economy and Financial Environment. 
Changing Market Structure Accompanying Shifting Population Demographics in Japan. 
Core theme Stakeholders Corresponding actions (Materiality)
Providing Safety and Security. 
Shareholders. 
Research on climate change and natural disasters (Study on extreme weather events; support for disaster recovery and business continuity)
Insurance products responding to climate change and natural disasters (Support for disaster recovery and business continuity; microinsurance)
Employees, Insurance Agents and Business Partners. 
Instill the necessity of preparation for increasing natural disasters (Local community, social contribution and awareness-raising activities)
Respond quickly to claims payments at occurrence of disasters (Grievance resolution (Quality improvement of products and services)
Customers. 
There is a rising need for casualty insurance due to the frequent occurrences of major natural disasters (Study on extreme weather events; support for disaster recovery and business continuity; microinsurance)
Businesses that accelerate developing clean energy (Development of clean energy)
Local Communities and Societies. 
Accumulation of information regarding disaster preparedness and appropriate action in the case of a disaster (Study on extreme weather events; local community, social contribution and awareness-raising activities)
Protecting the Earth. 
Employees, Insurance Agents and Business Partners. 
Protection of the global environment through products and services (Global environment protection activities (Biodiversity))
Local Communities and Societies Climate change, natural disasters and depletion of biodiversity (Environmental protection activities in local communities)
Governance and Compliance. 
Shareholders. 
Response to impact on the insurance business of issues such as the frequent occurrences of major natural disasters and the creation of communities with strong resilience to disasters (Enterprise risk management, generate and distribute economic value)
Insurance Agents and Business Partners. 
Pressure by institutional investors on company climate change strategy over its value chain and the implementation of effective initiatives (Promoting ESG initiatives in the supply chain and value chain)
Investment Investment for promoting clean energy and investment for promoting ESG management (Sustainable investment)
Core theme Stakeholders Corresponding materiality. 
Supporting People. 
Employees. 
Acceptance, promotion and utilization of diversity in such areas as gender, age and nationality (Developing and utilizing diverse human resources)
Address labor shortage due to the aging of society, secure and develop young workers Implement initiatives for health and productivity management. 
Customers. 
Aging of customers (Medical treatment, household economy and longevity (Integrated insurance services relating to health))
Increase in nursing care and health needs (Health promotion (cancer, incurable diseases); nursing care; prevention of infectious diseases)
Local Communities and Societies. 
Increasing unemployment rates for young people, poverty and inequalities in educational opportunities (Nurturing generations responsible for the future)
Governance and Compliance Shareholders The form of insurance will change due to a rise in one-person households and the aging of society (Corporate governance/internal control, enterprise risk management)
Core theme Stakeholders Corresponding materiality. 
Providing Safety and Security. 
Employees Respond to customer needs and changes in risk resulting from various technological innovation (Developing and utilizing diverse human resources)
Customers Provide customer support that responds to technological innovation such as web-based sales (Improving quality from the customer's perspective)
Supporting People Employees. 
Importance of IT and necessity of information security (Deveroping and utilizing diverse human resources) Improve business efficiency through information systems that utilize technological innovation (Quality improvement of products and services)
Governance and Compliance. 
Shareholders Impact on business processes, including sales and after-sales service and customer information gathering (Corporate governance/internal control, enterprise risk management)
Insurance Agents and Business Partners. 
Being able to differentiate product and service quality and maintain the corporate brand (Generate and distribute economic value)
Investment Importance of information security due to insurance sales through websites Further respect of market regulations (Information security)
Core theme Stakeholders Corresponding materiality. 
Governance and Compliance. 
Shareholders Investment risk due to low interest rates, decrease in investment returns (Corporate governance/internal control, enterprise risk management)
Insurance Agents and Business Partners. 
Investment risk due to low interest rates, decrease in investment returns (Generate and distribute economic value)
Customers Intensifying competition in providing services due to the increasingly unclear behavior of customers and deregulation (Improving quality from the customer's perspective)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


17. 
Relationship between Tokio Marine Group Initiatives and SDGs. 
Tokio Marine Group provides various products and services and is undertaking sustainability initiatives related to the SDGs. The activities carried out under each core theme respond to the 17 goals comprising the SDGs. Tokio Marine Group will strive to contribute to the attainment of the. 
SDGs in accordance with the activities of each core theme. Among such activities, the high-priority. 
SDG targets and Tokio Marine Group’s contribution to the target achievement are detailed below.
High-Priority SDG Targets and Tokio Marine Group’s Contribution to the Target Achievement. 
Core Theme 2:
Protecting the Earth 6.6 Protect and restore water-related ecosystems, including mountains, forests, wetlands, rivers, aquifers and lakes 6.b Support and strengthen the participation of local communities in improving water and sanitation management. 
Implementing environmental protection activities such as mangrove-planting with customers by offering them an option to choose web-based insurance contracts (clauses) for non-life insurance products; Green Gift Project 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters 13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. 
Implementing environmental protection activities such as mangrove-planting with customers by offering them an option to choose web-based insurance contracts (clauses) for non-life insurance products; Green Gift Project. 
Distributing “personalized” videos that provide disaster preparedness information on risks for typhoons, torrential rainfalls and other disasters, enable policyholders to confirm insurance coverage details and provide contact procedures in an emergency. 
Providing business continuity support for climate-related disasters and natural disasters. 
Establishing an information network conducive to mitigating damage during natural and other disasters; providing recovery support. 
Offsetting greenhouse gas emissions from Tokio Marine Group’s business activities by capturing CO2 via mangrove planting 7.1 Ensure universal access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services 7.2 Increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix 7.3 Double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency 7.a Enhance international cooperation to facilitate access to clean energy research and technology, including renewable energy, energy efficiency and advanced and cleaner fossil-fuel technology, and promote investment in energy infrastructure and clean energy technology. 
Service programs for large-scale solar power generation facilities that combine assessment of natural and other disaster risks with non-life insurance products. 
Geothermal Package Plan that comprehensively underwrites such risk as property risk, construction risk and liability risk from ground surveys to operations. 
Insurance services that provide comprehensive support from construction to operation of renewable energy (solar, wind, biomass, geothermal, hydraulic power) facilities. 
Providing non-life insurance to promote widespread use of energy-efficient automobiles. 
Improving energy efficiency in non-life insurance management. 
Core Theme 3:
Supporting. 
People 3.3 End the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and neglected tropical diseases and combat hepatitis, water-borne diseases and other communicable diseases 3.4 Reduce by one third premature mortality from noncommunicable diseases through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being 3.d Strengthen the capacity of all countries for early warning, risk reduction and management of national and global health risks 3.8 Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk protection, access to quality essential health-care services and access to safe, effective, quality and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all. 
Pandemic derivative products for the World Bank. 
Promoting health and productivity management to create an environment in which employees can work with enthusiasm. 
Providing support for health of the insured and their families; providing services to support for asset building. 
Providing support for regenerative medicine research; providing insurance products for regenerative medicine to reduce costs and risks involving regenerative medical treatment. 
Providing insurance products for dementia patients and their families and holding seminars to obtain nursing skills. 
Promote widespread use of tools that assist customers and local communities to maintain health. 
Core theme SDGs Relevant target Tokio Marine Group’s contribution to the target achievement. 
Core Theme 1:
Providing. 
Safety and. 
Security 1.4 Ensure that all men and women, in particular the poor and the vulnerable, have access to financial services, including microfinance 1.5 Build the resilience of the poor and those in vulnerable situations and reduce their exposure and vulnerability to climate-related extreme events. 
Providing services that support low-income customers, including microinsurance in India. 
Industry-academia collaborative research on climate change and natural disaster risk; utilizing findings of industry-academia collaborative research in mitigating weather-induced disasters 3.6 Halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents Providing a mobile system that enables displaying insurancerelated points of contact, making such a contact and viewing insurance policy details. 
Providing mobile services that contribute to safe driving by utilizing a driving recorder. 
Researching risks of new transportation systems by participating in demonstration tests on public roads for autonomous vehicles 11.5 Significantly reduce the number of deaths and the number of people affected by disasters, including water-related disasters 11.b Substantially increase the number of cities and human settlements adopting and implementing integrated policies and plans towards inclusion, resource efficiency, mitigation and adaptation to climate change, resilience to disasters, and develop and implement, in line with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030, holistic disaster risk management at all levels. 
Providing business continuity support for climate-related disasters and natural disasters. 
Providing local communities with information on natural disaster risks and preservation of coastal disaster prevention forests. 
Establishing an information network conducive to mitigating damage during natural and other disasters; providing recovery support. 
Insurance against damage to cargo and transportation due to natural disasters. 
Industry-academia collaborative research on climate change and natural disaster risk; utilizing findings of industry-academia collaborative research in mitigating weather disasters 11.2 Provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems for all, improving road safety, notably by expanding public transport. 
Researching risks of new transportation systems by participating in demonstration tests on public roads for autonomous vehicles. 
Auto insurance for the “sharing economy”
Providing non-life insurance for various modes of transportation and mobility. 
Providing risk consulting services to prevent traffic accidents. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


18. 
Five steps Details Description of related content. 
Step 1 Understanding the SDGs What are the SDGs? Understanding the business case The baseline responsibilities for business. 
Top Message. 
Step 2 Defining priorities Map the value chain to identify impact areas Select indicators and collect data Define priorities. 
Relationship between Tokio Marine Group Initiatives and SDGs. 
Step 3 Setting goals Define scope of goals and select KPIs Define baseline and select goal type Set level of ambition Announce commitment to SDGs. 
Sustainability Plan within the Fiscal 2018-2020 Mid-Term Business Plan. 
Step 4 Integrating Anchoring sustainability goals within the business Embed sustainability across all functions Engage in partnerships. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives External Evaluations and Participation in Initiatives. 
Step 5 Reporting and communicating. 
Effective reporting and communication Communicating on SDG performance Sustainability Report 2020. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Principal Initiatives to Achieve SDGs 17 SDG goals. 
Tokio Marine Group’s initiatives Three core themes of mid-term sustainability strategy SDG targets Providing value through products and services. 
Providing value through other means. 
Providing Safety and Security. 
Protecting the Earth Supporting People 1. No poverty (End poverty in all its forms everywhere) •Weather insurance and micro-insurance in India •Research on climate change and natural disaster risk through industry-academia collaborative research ○ 1.5 2. Zero hunger (End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture) •Weather insurance and micro-insurance in India ○ 2.3 • Seminar for help obtaining Good Agriculture Practices (GAP)/Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) certifications for food manufacturing • Sustainable menu at employee cafeteria ○ 2.4 3. Good health and well-being (Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages) •Mobile Agent •Drive Agent Personal (DAP) • Participation in demonstration tests on public roads for autonomous vehicles ○ 3.6 • Promoting health and productivity management • Promoting life insurance revolution • Insurance products for regenerative medicine •Aruku Hoken •Dementia Support Plan • Pension-based long-term care insurance with dementia assistance •Liability insurance for nursing care service providers • Te-wo-Tsunagu “Hand-in Hand” Cancer Insurance • Investment Trust to Fight Cancer •Joint planning for docomo Healthcare’s Karada no Kimochi •Supporting the Center for iPS Cell Research and Application (CiRA), Kyoto University •Supporting the provision of Japanese-language medical services (U.S.) •Industry-academia collaborative research with The University of Tokyo and Tohoku University ○ 3.8,d. 
Core theme SDGs Relevant target Tokio Marine Group’s contribution to the target achievement. 
Sustainability. 
Management 8.5 Achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment 8.6 Substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training. 
Initiatives to provide educational opportunities and activities to instill risk-related knowledge for future generations. 
Creating employment opportunities for diverse human resources at various business bases and in the supply chain. 
Providing insurance products that respond to the needs of LGBT people by revising the definition of “spouse”
Insurance products that support initiatives to reduce human rights risks in the establishment of supply chains of companies. 
Tokio Marine Group’s initiatives toward the SDGs and its response to five steps laid out in the SDG. 
Compass (The guide for business action on the SDGs developed by GRI/United Nations Global. 
Compact/WBCSD) are detailed below.
Tokio Marine Group regards the relationship between each activity detailed in the Sustainability. 
Report and the applicable goals of the SDGs as indicated below.
Relationship between SDG Compass and Tokio Marine Group’s Response to SDGs. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


19 17 SDG goals. 
Tokio Marine Group’s initiatives Three core themes of mid-term sustainability strategy SDG targets Providing value through products and services. 
Providing value through other means. 
Providing Safety and Security. 
Protecting the Earth Supporting People 4. Quality education (Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all) •Green Gift Project • Room to Read’s educational support program in developing countries • Group Work on Managing Risks and Opportunities •Tokio Marine Kagami Memorial Foundation, Educational Development Fund, Sports Foundation •N Program to support young physicians to gain clinical experience ○ 4.1,3,6 5. Gender equality (Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls) •Empowering female employees (Tokio Marine Group, Women's Career College(TWCC),etc.) • Promoting active roles for older employees • Promoting global human resources strategy • Promoting the employment of persons with disabilities ○ 5.1,5 6. Clean water and sanitation (Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all) • Green Gift Planet GENKI Program/Mangrove Planting Project •Insurance for environmental liabilities and soil purification • Green Lessons ○ 6.6,b 7. Affordable and clean energy (Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all) • Package insurance for offshore wind power generation • Mega-Solar Package Program • Impairment Liability Coverage for Geothermal Power Generation Operators • Insurance products for renewable energy (solar, wind, biomass, geothermal, hydraulic power) operators • Asante environment-conscious auto insurance (Nisshin Fire & Marine Insurance) • Insurance design for scrubbers (desulfurization equipment) • Renewable Energy Fund, green bond investments •Auto insurance eco mark certification •Promoting the use of recycled automobile parts ○ 7.1,2,3, a 17 SDG goals. 
Tokio Marine Group’s initiatives Three core themes of mid-term sustainability strategy SDG targets Providing value through products and services. 
Providing value through other means. 
Providing Safety and Security. 
Protecting the Earth Supporting People 8. Decent work and economic growth (Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all) •Group Work on Managing Risks and Opportunities •Room to Read’s educational support program in developing countries ○ 8.6 •Promoting Health and Productivity Management •Providing support for obtaining certification for workplace certification system that makes it easy to work (delivery companies) •PRODOR career matching service •Work style reform ○ 8.5,8 9. Industry, innovation and infrastructure (Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable ndustrialization and foster innovation) •Digital strategy •Research on climate change and natural disaster risk through industry-academia collaborative research ○ 9.5,a •Mega-Solar Package Program •Impairment Liability Coverage for Geothermal Power Generation Operators ○ 9.4 •Cyber Risk Insurance •Tokio Cyber Port •Response to Act for Facilitating New Business Activities of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (formulation of business continuity plans (BCP)), awareness-raising activity for risk financing, providing insurance) 9.3 10. Reduced inequalities (Reduce inequality within and among countries) •Products to better serve corresponding to LGBT people •Insurance for supporting initiatives for reducing human rights risk in building supply chains •Inbound business support services •Support for dementia care •Seminar on caregiving skills •Activities associated with an elderly watch support network project •Support for sports by persons with disabilities and Special Olympics •Gold Partner of the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games •Support for NPO Himawari no Kai and Sawayaka Welfare Foundation •Support for Japan Deafblind Association ○ 10.2. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


20 17 SDG goals. 
Tokio Marine Group’s initiatives Three core themes of mid-term sustainability strategy SDG targets Providing value through products and services. 
Providing value through other means. 
Providing Safety and Security. 
Protecting the Earth Supporting People 14. Life below water (Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development) •Green Gift Project •Mangrove Planting Project •Planet GENKI Program ○ 14.1,2 15. Life on land (Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss) •Green Gift Project •Mangrove Planting Project •Planet GENKI Program •Ten-Year Restoration Project of the Coastal Forests of Tohoku Region affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake •Green Lessons (delivery classes) ○ 15.1,2 16. Peace, justice and strong institutions (Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels) •Policy for response to customer feedback •Managing prevention of transactions involving conflicts of interest ○ 16.5 17. Partnerships for the goals (Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development) •Providing products and services for resolving societal issues in collaboration with agents •Launching Maritime Technology Innovation Consortium (MTIC) •Overseas Investment Insurance •United Nations Global Compact •Principles for Responsible Investment •United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) •Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures (TCFD) pilot group of Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) advocated by UNEP FI •The Geneva Association’s Climate Change and Emerging Environmental Topics (CC+EET) working group •ClimateWise •Private Sector Alliance for Disaster Resilient Societies (ARISE) of United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR) •Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century •Eco-First Program by the Ministry of the Environment ○ ○ ○ 17.16 17 SDG goals. 
Tokio Marine Group’s initiatives Three core themes of mid-term sustainability strategy SDG targets Providing value through products and services. 
Providing value through other means. 
Providing Safety and Security. 
Protecting the Earth Supporting People 11. Sustainable cities and communities (Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable) •Accident response services during large-scale disaster using digital technologies (using AI to analyze images taken by drones, WebRTC and reservation of on-site investigations via smartphones) •Accident response services during large-scale disaster •Supporting the formulation of BCP •BELFOR’s Early Disaster Recovery Support Service •Natural disaster risk consulting •Comprehensive logistics insurance (comprehensive disaster logistics insurance) •Disaster Prevention Lessons •Research on climate change and natural disaster risk through industry-academia collaborative research •Local information network during a disaster ○ 11.5,b •Rider for Expenses for Saving Victims •Auto insurance for the “sharing economy” •One Day Auto Insurance •e-Cycle Insurance •Auto Insurance Fleet Accident Reduction Assist Rider •Drone Insurance •Drive agent Personal (DAP) •Cyber Risk Insurance ○ 11.2 •Obtaining ISO14001 environmental management system •Reduction in CO2 emissions •Purchase of green power ○ 11.6 12. Responsible consumption and production (Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns) •Web-based insurance policies and contracts (clauses) •Promoting the use of recycled automobile parts •Drive Agent Personal (DAP) •Smart Insurance Claims navi (web-based response service during automobile accident) ○ 12.2, 5,8 •Home Choice Assist •Home Cyber Risk Rider •Designated Equipment Water Disaster Rider •Cyber Risk Insurance •Recall Insurance •Inbound business support services •Overseas Total Support Desk •Overseas travel insurance for foreign tourists visiting Japan ○ 12.2, 4,8 13. Climate action (Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts) •Green Gift Project •Mangrove Planting Project •Distributing disaster-related “personalized” videos •Green Lessons, Disaster Prevention Lessons •Natural disaster risk seminar ○ ○ ○ 13.1,3 •Insurance products for renewable energy (solar, wind, biomass, geothermal, hydraulic power) operators •Package insurance for offshore wind power generation •Renewable Energy Fund, green bond investments •Web-based insurance policies and contracts •Promoting the use of recycled automobile parts •Drone Insurance •Insurance for environmental liabilities and soil purification •Achieving carbon neutral status •Reduction in CO2 emissions •Purchase of green power ○ 13.1. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


21. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives. 
Tokio Marine Holdings has established a dedicated sustainability division (Sustainability Division,
Corporate Planning Department) to identify material sustainability issues and to formulate and implement Group sustainability strategies. The division supports the sustainability activities of each. 
Group company through dialogue and cooperation with sustainability key persons appointed to promote sustainability within the sustainability divisions at the respective Group companies.
Tokio Marine Group regularly convenes the Sustainability Board, comprising the president of Tokio. 
Marine Holdings (board chairman) and presidents of major domestic Group companies, as well as the Sustainability Key Persons Conference, which consists of Tokio Marine Holdings and Group companies’ sustainability divisions. These bodies evaluate various types of sustainability initiatives and discuss response measures for sustainability issues (important issues to be shared by each Group company) for the entire Group. Tokio Marine Holdings also convenes Sustainability Dialogues with external experts, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and non-profit organizations (NPOs).
The dialogues give us opportunities to hear outside opinions about our awareness and approaches concerning the Group’s sustainability issues. These opinions and other ideas are then reflected in our sustainability strategies and our approach to each individual sustainability issue.
The Company’s Board of Directors receives reports on the sustainability activities of the entire Group while formulating the Overall Group Sustainability Strategies (medium-term plan and single fiscal- year plans). Sustainability promotion officers at each Group company play a leading role in promoting and handling common issues to be addressed by the entire Group as well as in implementing sustainability activities based on the characteristics of each business and local communities.
■ Enhancing Sustainability Communication. 
Tokio Marine Holdings and Tokio Marine & Nichido hold Sustainability Communication Meetings for exchanging opinions targeting employees of domestic and overseas Group companies and. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido. These meetings seek to spread and deepen employees’ understanding of sustainability and firmly implement sustainability initiatives continuously and reflect the Group’s sustainability policies in the measures and initiatives of Group companies and the branch offices of. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido. These meetings enable the sharing of information and the straightforward exchange of opinions on sustainability initiatives conducted in Tokio Marine Group, its respective companies and workplaces. Through these meetings, we have received comments from participants such as “Understanding the significance and purpose of sustainability activities and ‘sustainability through our core businesses’ has led to increased motivation.”
From fiscal 2015, we commenced the Sustainability Key Persons (SKP) Seminar for SKPs at Group companies and branch offices of Tokio Marine & Nichido. The seminar aims to share information and exchange opinions on the most current sustainability trends as well as the Group sustainability strategies for the purpose of creating social value and raising corporate value. In July 2019, we invited. 
Ai Ohara, Director of Japan Innovation Network, to give a lecture entitled “Exploring the Link between the SDGs and Business,” which was followed by a group discussion to facilitate better understanding. 
Tokio Marine Group developed microinsurance and weather insurance for low-income earners in those developing countries with vulnerability to climate change, natural disasters, illnesses and accidents. Also, Tokio Marine Group supplies products and services that support the building and introduction of renewable energy facilities and also operates the Green Gift Project. Under this project, when customers choose web-based insurance contracts on our website, Tokio Marine &
Nichido donates funds corresponding to a portion of the value of the reduction in paper used to support environmental protection activities in Japan and overseas. The organizational structures for undertaking these initiatives are as follows.
Tokio Marine Holdings 締役会 取
Management Meeting. 
Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board. 
Dedicated sustainability division ・Sustainability Division,
Corporate Planning Department. 
Administrative departments. 
Board of Directors. 
Sustainability division. 
Workplace. 
Group Company. 
Nomination Committee. 
Compensation Committee. 
Internal Control Committee. 
Deciding and evaluating sustainability strategies. 
Deciding and evaluating sustainability strategies ・President (committee chairperson) ・Presidents of Group companies ・Directors. 
Collaboration. 
Sustainability Board. 
Opinion exchanges and discussions with external experts ・External experts ・Presidents of Tokio Marine Holdings and Tokio Marine & Nichido (Executives and department general managers in charge of sustainability)
Sustainability Dialogue. 
Share and discuss sustainability strategies and initiatives ・ Sustainability key persons from Group companies. 
Sustainability Key Persons Conference. 
Board of Directors. 
Sustainability division. 
Workplace. 
Group Company. 
Board of Directors. 
Sustainability division. 
Workplace. 
Group Company. 
Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure. 
Initiatives to Promote Sustainability within the Group. 
System for Sustainable Consumption. 
Initiatives Company. 
Microinsurance and weather insurance (India) IFFCO-TOKIO General Insurance Co. Ltd.
Products and services that support the building and introduction of renewable energy facilities Tokio Marine & Nichido (Sales Development Department, Sales Department)
Green Gift Project Tokio Marine & Nichido (Sales Planning Department, Sustainability Department)
Major ESG products of Tokio Marine Group with impact or values (PDF/488KB)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


22 and internalization of sustainability and SDG concepts.
In February 2020, Kunji Matsuda, Secretary General of the Japan Inclusive Football Federation, was also invited to give a lecture under the theme of “Creating an Inclusive Society through Football” to deepen our understanding in this area.
To help resolve societal issues and perpetually raise the Group’s corporate value, we will continuously hold these meetings and seminars in the future in order to improve the sustainability mindsets and skill levels of employees.
■ Sustainability Training. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido conducts sustainability training through e-Learning for all employees once a year to promote understanding and sharing of the philosophy behind the company’s sustainability activities. In addition to affirmation of the Sustainability Charter, the training includes topics such as confirmation of environmental footprint reduction targets and the environmental management system and confirmation of the company’s community and social contribution initiatives. Key persons in each workplace promote participation in the training.
■ Community and Social Contribution Activities with the Participation of All Employees. 
Tokio Marine Group has set the three core sustainability themes of “Providing Safety and Security,” “Protecting the Earth” and “Supporting People” and is implementing different local community and social contribution activities around the world that emphasize voluntary participation by employees and tie-ups and collaboration with NPOs and other groups.
In addition to aiming to conduct ongoing local community and social contribution activities at each workplace and Group company, we have designated October and November as Sustainability Months every year with the aim of promoting employee-driven sustainability activities. Many employees take part in a variety of local community and social contribution programs during this period in different parts of the world.
■ Support Systems and Donations. 
All Tokio Marine Group companies encourage the proactive participation of their employees in local community and social contribution activities by introducing them to activities in which they may be able to participate or by creating a volunteer leave system or an award program to recognize employees’ active efforts in local community and social contribution activities.
Sustainability Performance Data (Employee participation rate in volunteer activities, Number of employees who took volunteer leave, Donations) >> ■ Tokio Marine Group CEO Recognition for Sustainability. 
To promote the fostering of a corporate culture in which each employee engages in sustainability as his/her own issue and ensure this contributes to the community and helps create corporate value, in fiscal 2015 Tokio Marine Group expanded Tokio Marine & Nichido’s award system to the entire Group and established the Tokio Marine Group CEO Recognition for Sustainability. In April 2020, a total of 20 outstanding initiatives implemented in fiscal 2019 at Group companies and Tokio Marine & Nichido’s branch offices were commended.
One of the award winners, Hiroyuki Ikeda from Tokio Marine & Nichido (Tokai & Hokuriku Business. 
Support Department and Human Rights Awareness and Diversity Promotion Division, Human. 
Resources Department), had aphasia as a result of a stroke, went through two years of rehabilitation and returned to work in February 2018. The award recognized his courageous and moving lecture entitled “Lesson of Smiles,” which he delivered in fiscal 2019 based on his own experience of inclusion in the workplace.
Overview of Support Systems/Programs and Fiscal 2019 Results (Tokio Marine & Nichido)
Matching gift system A system in which the company makes a donation matching the amount voluntarily donated by employees (9 cases totaling 495,724 yen)
Volunteer leave/leave of absence system. 
A system to support employees for their volunteer time (used by 71 employees) • Volunteer leave A system in which employees are permitted to take leave limited to 10 days per year to participate in volunteer activities that include relief efforts in a disaster and support for social welfare institutions or groups relating to persons with disabilities, the elderly and children’s welfare facilities, etc. • Volunteer leave of absence A system in which employees are permitted to take leave for a period of over six months and up to two years, in principle, to participate in a volunteer program recognized by the company, particularly actions with a high degree of social contribution in a social welfare institute, etc.
Share Happiness Club. 
A donation program operated by employee volunteers In fiscal 2019, a total of 4,709,000 yen donated by 1,441 employees was distributed to the following organizations: • Watari Greenbelt Project • International Society for Mangrove Ecosystems (ISME) • Childline Support Center Japan • Japan Deafblind Association • Carillon Children Center (Representative of the National Children’s Shelter Network Council) • The MICHINOKU Future • WaterAid Japan • Association for Aid and Relief, Japan • Single Mothers Forum • Fukinotou no kai • Japan Rescue Association • Japan Boccia Association. 
Sustainability Months Months for strengthening initiatives for proactively carrying out local community and social contribution activities across the entire Tokio Marine Group (October–November)
Tokio Marine Group CEO Recognition for Sustainability. 
We commend excellent initiatives at Group companies and at Tokio Marine & Nichido branch offices that lead to the resolution of issues in communities and to the generation of corporate value. (For details, please refer to the “Tokio Marine Group CEO Recognition for Sustainability” below.)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


23 ■ Sustainability Plan within the Fiscal 2018–2020 Mid-Term Business Plan. 
Under the Mid-Term Business Plan “To Be a Good Company 2020 (FY2018–FY2020),” Tokio Marine. 
Group has set the following core sustainability themes and implemented initiatives for the three core sustainability themes and strengthening sustainability management.
Plans and results of sustainability initiatives are organized by materiality (material issue), and some represent Tokio Marine Group’s priority targets toward the achievement of the SDGs.
In fiscal 2019, our initiatives generally proceeded smoothly and we attained our objectives in all activities. In working toward being a “Good Company,” in fiscal 2020, all Group employees throughout the world will continuously work to implement the three sustainability core themes and strengthen sustainability management as his/her own matter with the aim of raising corporate value and generating social value.
• Core Theme 1: Providing Safety and Security • Core Theme 2: Protecting the Earth • Core Theme 3: Supporting People • Governance ­–
Strengthening Sustainability Management. 
Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives. 
Providing Safety and Security. 
A Safe, Secure and Sustainable Future. 
Governance – Strengthening Sustainability Management. 
Protecting the Earth Supporting People <Core Theme 1: Providing Safety and Security>
Materiality (Material Issue)
Mid-Term Sustainability Plan (Fiscal 2018–2020) Targets. 
Fiscal 2019 Activities and Numerical Targets. 
Fiscal 2019 Results SelfAssessment. 
Fiscal 2020 Activities and Numerical Targets. 
Making Society Resilient to Natural Disasters • Create value by providing disaster risk solutions • Respond to climate change and natural disaster risk • Create value by industry-academia collaborative research •Provide disaster and accident risk solutions • Promote industryacademia collaborative research and create value • Hold natural disaster risk seminars •Provided claims services leveraging digital technology • Provided disaster and accidentrelated insurance and risk consulting services; continued to distribute personalized videos to customers to prepare for typhoons and torrential downpours • Promoted climate change and natural disaster risk research with The University of Tokyo, Nagoya University, Kyoto University and Tohoku University and continued to undertake initiatives for making society resilient to disasters • Held a natural disaster risk seminar on earthquake risk and response required of companies and local governments (November 2019) ◯
• Provide claims services leveraging digital technology • Provide disaster and accident risk solutions • Promote industryacademia collaborative research • Hold natural disaster risk seminars. 
Building a Secure Society by Leveraging Traffic Technology Innovation •Develop products and services that respond to technological innovation • Develop products and services that respond to technological innovation •Launched automobile insurance for the “sharing economy” •Launched a Rider for Expenses for Saving Victims for auto insurance and Super Insurance •Launched Drive Agent Personal, a new service for auto insurance ◯
• Develop and provide products and services that respond to technological innovation. 
Increasing Safety in Daily Lives by Responding to Varying Lifestyles and Changes in Society • Develop related products and services • Develop related products and services •Launched a new product, D&O Management Package •Launched a cyber security information portal site, “Tokio Cyber Port” ◯ • Develop and provide related products and services. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


24. 
Materiality (Material Issue)
Mid-Term Sustainability Plan (Fiscal 2018–2020) Targets. 
Fiscal 2019 Activities and Numerical Targets. 
Fiscal 2019 Results SelfAssessment. 
Fiscal 2020 Activities and Numerical Targets. 
Eliminating Poverty in Society •Provide all people with access to insurance services • Provide insurance for low-income earners and those engaging in small-scale farming • Increased the prevalence of weather insurance and microinsurance in India ◯
• Provide insurance for low-income earners and those engaging in small-scale farming. 
Local Community and Social Contribution Activities • As an indicator for measuring the state of sustainability initiatives with the participation of all employees, total employee participation rate in volunteer activities: At least 100% (total participation rate regarding three core themes) • Continue support for recovery of the disaster-affected areas •Hold Disaster Prevention Lessons at schools •Total employee participation rate in volunteer activities: At least 100% (total participation rate regarding three core themes) • Continue support for recovery of the disaster-affected areas • Hold Disaster Prevention Lessons at schools •Total employee participation rate in volunteer activities: 143% (attained target for the sixth consecutive year, total participation rate regarding three core themes) • Continued employee cafeteria menu for support for recovery of the disaster-affected areas as well as volunteer support for recovery of the disaster-affected areas • Held Disaster Prevention Lessons (683 times, with participation of 48,930 children and students (accumulated total as of March 31, 2020)) ◯
•Total employee participation rate in volunteer activities: At least 100% for total participation rate (meaning the sum of the participation rate for each of the three core themes) • Continue support for recovery of the disasteraffected areas • Hold Disaster Prevention Lessons at schools <Core Theme 2: Protecting the Earth>
Materiality (Material Issue)
Mid-Term Sustainability Plan (Fiscal 2018–2020) Targets. 
Fiscal 2019 Activities and Numerical Targets Fiscal 2019 Results SelfAssessment. 
Fiscal 2020 Activities and Numerical Targets. 
Preserving and Wetlands Biodiversity through Products and Services • Promote Green Gift Project •Promote Green Gift Project • Preserve biodiversity through environmental protection and awareness-raising activities in Japan and overseas • Mangrove Planting Project • Implemented Green Gift Project and reduced paper resources by 2,837 tons • Conducted biodiversity preservation activities in Japan in conjunction with NPOs 290 times, with a total of 16,880 people participating (accumulated total as of March 31, 2020) • Conducted mangrove planting (11,240 ha of forested area (accumulated total as of March 31, 2020)) ◯
•Green Gift Project • Preserve biodiversity through environmental protection and awarenessraising activities in Japan and overseas • Mangrove Planting Project. 
Preventing Global Warming by Promoting Development of Clean Energy • Provide MegaSolar Package Program • Provide TM Nippon Solar Energy Fund •Provide Mega-Solar Package Program • Provide TM Nippon Solar Energy Fund •Provided insurance package for offshore wind power generation • Provided Mega-Solar Package Program and Impairment Liability Coverage for Geothermal Power Generation Operators • Provided TM Nippon Solar Energy Fund ◯
•Provide insurance package for offshore wind power generation • Provide MegaSolar Package Program, etc. • Provide TM Nippon Solar Energy Fund. 
Building Communities for People to Live with Peace of Mind through Environmental Protection Activities, and Local Community and Social Contribution Activities • Total employee participation rate in volunteer activities: At least 100% (total participation rate regarding three core themes) • Total employee participation rate in volunteer activities: At least 100% (total participation rate regarding three core themes) • Hold Green Lessons at schools • Children’s Environmental Award • Marunouchi Citizens Environmental Forum • Total employee participation rate in volunteer activities: 143% (attained target for the sixth consecutive year, total participating rate regarding three core themes) • Held Green Lessons (862 times, 57,312 children and students (accumulated total as of March 31, 2020)) ◯
• Total employee participation rate in volunteer activities: At least 100% (total participating rate regarding three core themes) • Hold Green Lessons at schools • Hold Children’s Environmental Award. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


25 <Core Theme 3: Supporting People>
Materiality (Material Issue)
Mid-Term Sustainability Plan (Fiscal 2018– 2020) Targets. 
Fiscal 2019 Activities and Numerical Targets. 
Fiscal 2019 Results SelfAssessment Fiscal 2020 Activities and Numerical Targets. 
Building a Society Based on Health and Longevity to Ensure Peace of Mind • Create value by providing solutions related to health and dwindling population/ aging society; develop and provide products and services to meet dwindling population/ aging society and changing population demographics • Provide living benefit related products •Launched Dementia Support Plan •Launched Aruku Hoken ◯
• Develop and provide living benefit related products. 
Nurturing Generations Responsible for the Future • Promote youth development •Support to foster young swimmers • Support scholarship students through foundations • Support female education in developing countries • Provided special backing of National JOC Junior Olympic Cup Swimming Tournament • Supported scholarship students, traffic accident orphans and children whose parents died from disease through foundations • Supported female education in developing countries through international NGO “Room to Read” ◯
• Continue supporting youth development, the elderly, persons with disabilities and athletes • Promote initiatives for children responsible for the future. 
Aiming to Create a Symbiotic Society • Promote support of the elderly and persons with disabilities • Promote enrollment in courses fostering employee supporters of people with dementia; support attainment of Technical Care Helper Certificate • Support for the Special Olympics • Enhance support for sports by persons with disabilities • Support Japan Deafblind Association, etc.
• Enrollment in courses fostering employee supporters of persons with dementia: 5,758 employees (accumulated total as of March 31, 2020) • Held courses supporting attainment of Technical Care Helper Certificate • Provided support of Special Olympics (Tokio Marine & Nichido, Safety National) • Started support for sports for disabled persons by backing Japanese Para-Sports Association and Japan Inclusive Football Federation so as to enable people to learn about, watch and experience sports by persons with disabilities • Supported Japan Deafblind Association ◯
•Promote employee enrollment in courses fostering supporters of persons with dementia; provide courses supporting attainment of Technical Care Helper Certificate • Support sports for persons with disabilities • Support Japan Deafblind Association. 
Local Community and Social Contribution Activities • Total employee participation rate in volunteer activities: 100% (total participation rate regarding three core themes) • Total employee participation rate in volunteer activities: 100% (total participation rate regarding three core themes) • Total employee participation rate in volunteer activities: 143% (attained target for the sixth consecutive year, total participating rate regarding three core themes) ◯ • Total employee participation rate in volunteer activities: 100% (total participation rate regarding three core themes) • Hold career education program “Group Work on Managing Risks and Opportunities” <Sustainability Management>
Materiality (Material Issue)
Mid-Term Sustainability Plan (Fiscal 2018–2020) Targets. 
Fiscal 2019 Activities and Numerical Targets Fiscal 2019 Results SelfAssessment. 
Fiscal 2020 Activities and Numerical Targets. 
Improving Quality from the Customer’s Perspective • Create value by quality improvement • Promote quality improvement initiatives • Implemented initiatives for Anshin Quality ◯
• Promote quality improvement initiatives. 
Promoting Environmental Management • FY2020 CO2 emissions: -3% (compared with FY2014) • FY2020 CO2 emissions per employee: -3% (compared with FY2014) • Be carbon neutral • Promote paperless operations • Promote 3R • CO2 emissions: -1% (Scope 1+2+3, compared with FY2018) • CO2 emissions per employee: -1% (Scope 1+2+3, compared with FY2018) • Be carbon neutral • Paper consumption: -1% (compared with FY2018) • Promote introduction of Raku Raku Tetsuzuki • Promote 3R; waste emissions: -0% (compared with FY2018) • CO2 emissions: -1.0% (Scope 1+2+3, compared with FY2018) • CO2 emissions per employee: -2.7% (Scope 1+2+3, compared with FY2018) • Achieved carbon neutral status (eighth time in seven consecutive years) • Paper consumption: -0.9% (compared with FY2018) • Promoted introduction of paperless Raku Raku Tetsuzuki online procedures using tablet devices in face-to-face sales • Promoted 3R; waste emissions: -1.6% (compared with FY2018) ◯
• CO2 emissions: -1% (Scope 1+2+3, compared with FY2019) • CO2 emissions per employee: -1% (Scope 1+2+3, compared with FY2019) • Be carbon neutral • Paper consumption: -1% (compared with FY2019); promote introduction of Raku Raku Tetsuzuki • Promote 3R; waste emissions: -0% (compared with FY2019)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


26 <Governance – Strengthening Sustainability Management>
Materiality (Material Issue)
Mid-Term Sustainability Plan (Fiscal 2018–2020) Targets. 
Fiscal 2019 Activities and Numerical Targets Fiscal 2019 Results SelfAssessment. 
Fiscal 2020 Activities and Numerical Targets. 
Promoting Health and Productivity Management • Promote health and productivity management • Percentage taking medical exam: Approx. 100% • Rate of stress test implementation: At least 90% • Selected as Health & Productivity Stock for the fifth consecutive year, strengthened support for customers’ health and productivity management through establishment of Health and Productivity Management Task Force • Percentage taking medical exam: 100% • Rate of stress test implementation: 97.9% ◯
• Percentage taking medical exam: Approx. 100% • Rate of stress test implementation: At least 90%
Developing and Utilizing Diverse Human Resources • Promote diversity and inclusion • Promote diversity and inclusion • Promote employment of persons with disabilities (including attainment of 2.0% employment rate of persons with disabilities) • Promote female empowerment • Employment rate of persons with disabilities 2.01% (Japan, as of June 1, 2019) • Selected as “Semi-Nadeshiko Brand” in fiscal 2019 ◯
• Promote employment of persons with disabilities (including attainment of 2.0% employment rate of persons with disabilities) • Promote female empowerment (including an increase in the composition of females in managerial positions)
Materiality (Material Issue)
Mid-Term Sustainability Plan (Fiscal 2018–2020) Targets. 
Fiscal 2019 Activities and Numerical Targets Fiscal 2019 Results SelfAssessment. 
Fiscal 2020 Activities and Numerical Targets. 
Corporate Governance / Internal Control •Foster the sense of sustainability in employees and enhance skills • Implement CEO Recognition for Sustainability award • Implemented, selected and awarded winners of the CEO Recognition for Sustainability award that covers domestic and overseas Group companies ◯
• Enhance Tokio Marine Group CEO Recognition for Sustainability award. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability • Strengthen sustainability communication in the Group • Hold meetings of Sustainability Board, Sustainability Key Persons Conference, etc.
• Held meetings of Sustainability Board (August 2019) and Sustainability Key Persons Conference (July 2019) and strengthened sustainability communication in the Group ◯
• Strengthen sustainability communication in the Group through the Sustainability Board, etc.
Sustainability in the Value Chain • Promote utilization of recycled materials • Promote utilization of recycled materials • Enhance human rights initiatives • Percentage of recycled automobile materials used: 2.05% (Previous fiscal year: 2.20%) (Tokio Marine & Nichido) • Conducted research on human rights risk ◯
• Promote the use of recycled automobile materials • Enhance human rights initiatives. 
Stakeholder Engagement • Enhance communication with stakeholders • Hold Sustainability Dialogue • Held Sustainability Dialogue (February 2020) ◯
• Enhance communications with stakeholders through Sustainability Dialogue and other means. 
Overview of Group Sustainability Reporting • Expand upon sustainability and nonfinancial information disclosure •Publish and further enhance Integrated Report • Enhance the contents of Sustainability Report • Publish Integrated Annual Report 2019 • Sustainability Report 2019 to be in accordance with the Core option of the GRI standerds • Published Integrated Annual Report 2019 • Published Sustainability Report 2019 in compliance with the Core option of the GRI standards ◯
•Expand upon sustainability and nonfinancial information disclosure •Enhance the ESG section of the Integrated Annual Report 2020 • Sustainability Report 2020 to be in compliance with the Core option of the GRI standards. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


27. 
Stakeholder Engagement: Promoting Initiatives Together with Various Stakeholders. 
In implementing high-quality corporate management, we believe it is essential to develop a relationship of mutual trust through dialogue with customers and all other stakeholders. We are promoting a deeper understanding of Tokio Marine Group’s thinking, values and various types of initiatives based on customer opinions (customer compliments, complaints and other opinions and suggestions) received by Group companies, and through engagement with shareholders and investors, dialogue with agents, communications with employees, communications with external environmental, social and governance (ESG) and socially responsible investment (SRI) rating agencies and opinion exchange with external experts (Sustainability Dialogue). Using the obtained feedback, we identify issues of the entire Group and at each Group company. We also provide shareholder and investor information and issue various types of news releases through the media and make our best efforts to provide appropriately timed and adequate information disclosure to all stakeholders.
Tokio Marine Group’s Stakeholders. 
Stakeholders Engagement Web Links Policy Contents. 
Customers. 
We continually provide customers and society with “safety and security.” We will continue to promptly and appropriately provide even higher quality products, services and processes that meet the expectations of our customers.
Basic knowledge of insurance. 
Naruhodo Insurance Guide (Basic)
Naruhodo Insurance Guide (Life Events)
Customer satisfaction levels Response to Customer Feedback >
Shareholders and Investors. 
To assure transparent and fair management, we work for timely and appropriate information disclosure, while implementing a variety of measures to realize constructive dialogue with domestic and overseas shareholders and investors.
Dialogue with shareholders and investors. 
Stakeholder Engagement (Engagement with Shareholders and Investors) >
Corporate Governance (Relations with Shareholders and Other Stakeholders) >
Disclosure policy Information Disclosure. 
Insurance Agents. 
We emphasize mutual trust with our agents and combine our strengths to meet the needs of customers while cooperating to promote mutually sound growth and development.
Cooperation with insurance agents. 
Working Together with Agents to Improve Quality > Education and Training Systems for Agents >
Business Partners We aim for healthy mutual growth and development with our business partners. Cooperation with business partners Sustainability in the Value Chain >
Employees. 
We respect each and every employee as individuals and recognize their dignity and value, and pay careful attention to ensure that they can fulfill their responsibilities to their families. We aim to be a professional group with very distinctive characteristics while cooperating to ensure all colleagues maximize their performance with integrity and compassion.
Employee satisfaction levels Fair Personnel System and Management (Raising Employee Satisfaction Levels) >
Dialogue Sustainability Initiatives Aiming To Be a “Good Company”>
Local Communities and Societies. 
As a good corporate citizen, we strive to be trusted by all people and society while contributing to the creation of a society where a diversity of people can live healthy lives and with a sense of security. We also make efforts to soundly protect the global environment for future generations. In addition, by partnering with NPOs, etc., we conduct a mangrove planting project and experience-based environmental protection activities mainly focusing on children.
Awards External Evaluations and Participation in Initiatives >
Initiatives External Evaluations and Participation in Initiatives >
Sustainability Dialogue Stakeholder Engagement (Fiscal 2019 Sustainability Dialogue) >
Mangrove Planting Project. 
Preserving Biodiversity and Wetlands through Products and Services (Green Gift Project: Mangrove Planting) >
Experience-based environmental protection activities. 
Protection of Biodiversity and Wetlands through Products and Services (Green Gift: Planet GENKI Program) >
Research Institutions. 
To respond to disasters caused by climate change, we will enhance our natural disaster risk assessment through industryacademia collaboration and will provide products and services for stable responses to disasters in the future.
Climate change and natural disaster risk research. 
Making Society Resilient to Natural Disasters >
External Initiatives, Organizations, Governments. 
To respond to global-scale issues such as climate change, poverty, human rights and resource and energy issues and help create a secure, safe and sustainable future, we will collaborate with governments and industry organizations and participate in initiatives that include the United Nations Global Compact and the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), and undertake activities in cooperation with a variety of stakeholders toward resolving these issues.
Participation in initiatives External Evaluations and Participation in Initiatives >
Media. 
Based on the Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter that states, “We intend to disclose information timely and appropriately and to promote dialogue with all our stakeholders to ensure effective corporate management,” we will cooperate with the media and carry out fair, timely and proper disclosure of company information to gain the trust and understanding of our stakeholders.
News release News release. 
Tokio Marine Holdings corporate website (Sustainability page)
Tokio Marine Holdings Corporate Website (Sustainability Page)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


28. 
In the name of the “Sustainability Dialogue,” Tokio Marine Group regularly invites outside experts to share the latest knowledge on sustainability with management and to engage in dialogue (exchange views and engage in discussions) about Tokio Marine Group’s sustainability initiatives. On February 12, 2020, we invited a prominent figure to give a lecture on the theme of “Creation of Corporate Value and Sustainable Management” and to share his opinions about the sustainability initiatives of Tokio. 
Marine Group in line with the latest social situation in the field of sustainability. Several opinions offered through the dialogue are provided herein.
■ 1. It is important to hold dialogues with various stakeholders and become a sustainable company with high competitive edge.
A well-balanced management model based on the idea of benefitting three parties (the seller, the buyer and society as a whole) is popular in Japan, but it lacks the perspective of shareholders. In order for Japanese companies to overcome the issue of low earnings and solve social issues potentially becoming more serious in the future, business managers need to deal with both short-term issues and medium- to long-term sustainability issues and increase the ability to provide value. In doing so, it is crucial to respond appropriately to ESG trends by holding dialogues with every stakeholder in the capital market and gain recognition from the world’s stock market as a company continuously improving corporate value.
[Tokio Marine Group’s response policies]
Tokio Marine Holdings will hone its ability to provide value by enhancing dialogues with customers and other stakeholders, including those in the capital market, and by increasing our abilities to deliver safety and security, to execute M&A and to enhance the Group’s combined capabilities.
Our efforts in fiscal 2019 included expediting payment of insurance claims; building a simple and fast process for insurance claims payment; setting up new customer contact points through a business tie-up with an online service provider; executing flexible M&A with a focus on cultural alignment; combining high levels of expertise of Group companies in Japan to predict and prevent disasters and accidents; and providing early recovery services.
We will continue our endeavor to become a company highly recognized both by society and the capital market through the enhancement of our dialogue with various stakeholders.
■ 2. You should facilitate customers’ understanding of your corporate culture as a product and service provider and constantly gain trust from them.
Unlike products and services provided by manufacturers, those of financial and insurance business operators are intangible and take time to be recognized by customers. As such, it is important to practice business management based on the trust of customers. You should make efforts to facilitate their understanding of the Group’s philosophy when providing products and services to them.
Ingraining this philosophy into employees shapes a corporate culture, which in turn serves as the basis of customer trust. It is essential that customers can get a sense of that corporate culture.
[Tokio Marine Group’s response policies]
Tokio Marine Group companies have formulated their respective customer-oriented business. 
Fiscal 2019 Sustainability Dialogue ■ Participants (Affiliations and positions are as of the date of the convening of the dialogue.)
Akiyoshi Oba Chairman Japan Investment Advisers Association. 
Makoto Okada Executive Vice President Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc.
Satoru Komiya President and Group CEO Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc.
Shinichi Hirose President and CEO Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Co., Ltd.
Takayuki Yuasa Executive Vice President Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc.
Tadashi Handa Senior Managing Director Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Co., Ltd.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


29. 
Responding to Opinions in the Sustainability Dialogue Thank you for your valuable opinions. We will utilize these opinions in our future activities to accelerate our initiatives for resolving various issues facing society.
We aim to be a “Good Company” that supports customers and society in all times of need. Based on dialogue and collaboration with our stakeholders in all areas of our business, from products and services to respect for human rights and dignity, protection of the global environment, contribution to local communities and societies, governance and stakeholder engagement, all employees will work together to create a secure, safe and sustainable future with a focus on our three core sustainability themes.
Makoto Okada Executive Vice President Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc.
■Opinions Received from Experts in the Past and Subsequent Responses. 
Date of dialogue Items Opinions Status of Group’s response. 
January 25, 2011. 
Global CSR initiatives Besides playing a role in Japan, as a representative of Asia, Tokio Marine Group should fulfill the role of an industry leader in CSR throughout the rest of the world as well.
Tokio Marine & Nichido is actively participating in global initiatives, which include serving as a Board Member for UNEP FI-PSI (United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative Principles for Sustainable Insurance) for Asia.
Innovative initiatives I’d like to see the implementation of environment-conscious initiatives that go beyond mere reductions of CO2 emissions and paper consumption (e.g., the total use of FSC-certified paper, investments in renewable energy).
• Tokio Marine & Nichido makes standard use of “environment-conscious paper” that includes FSCcertified paper. • Marketing of TM Nippon Solar Energy Fund by Tokio Marine Asset Management conduct policies and are carrying out business accordingly while remaining close to customers and keeping an acute awareness of their diversifying needs. We will remain committed to thoroughly implementing customer-oriented business conduct in the future as well. Through the provision of safety and security to customers, we will also strive to gain greater trust by facilitating their understanding of our corporate culture, including our purpose (raison d’etre) of protecting customers and local communities in times of need.
■ 3. You need to respond appropriately to climate change issues and enhance your climate- related information disclosure based on the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate- related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
Among other countries, Japan has the greatest number of companies supporting the disclosure of climate-related information according to TCFD recommendations. What is increasingly emphasized now is the content of their information disclosure. For example, many companies sustained damage during typhoons last year, and they need to disclose more information on the actual situations surrounding such a risk. Companies are required to appropriately identify, assess and disclose climate change-related risks and opportunities to investors and other relevant parties based on TCFD recommendations.
[Tokio Marine Group’s response policies]
Tokio Marine Holdings has identified global climate change and an increase in natural disasters as one of the material issues and seeks to create a resilient society. Since declaring our support to the. 
TCFD for the first time in the Integrated Annual Report 2017, we have been disclosing information on climate-related governance, strategies, risk management, metrics and targets based on TCFD recommendations through our corporate website, Sustainability Reports and other means. We will continue to implement appropriate risk control and work to improve the sophistication of our disclosure of information on the actual risk situations.
■­4. You need to nurture human resources and provide opportunities to them.
Failure, to put it positively, is “learning for the future.” Many companies engaging in the development of human resources are now required to make additional efforts to incorporate the opinions of younger generations and women and build their self-confidence by taking on challenges on their own. Giving due consideration to such matters is currently important in companies.
[Tokio Marine Group’s response policies]
Tokio Marine Holdings focuses on human resources development through such means as continuous dialogue between managers and employees for the enhancement of employees’ competencies (in behavior and thinking). For example, Tokio Marine Holdings and Tokio Marine & Nichido jointly operate the Tokio Marine Innovation Program, an in-house open application program launched in 2017 for the creation of business models and new businesses that will contribute to the Group’s growth. It periodically solicits ideas from employees to spur innovation and allows the employee who has submitted the most outstanding idea to put his or her innovative idea into practice. In July 2020, we announced “PRODOR,” the first project commercialized under the program.
Tokio Marine Holdings also provides various opportunities for female employees to build their career on their own and take active roles in a broader range of fields. In fiscal 2019, we launched the. 
Tokio Marine Group Women’s Career College (TWCC), an internal program for female employees of. 
Group companies in Japan. Going ahead, we will continue to undertake initiatives to nurture human resources and provide opportunities.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


30. 
Date of dialogue Items Opinions Status of Group’s response. 
November 24, 2011. 
Responses to climate change/global warming. 
I’m looking forward to seeing Tokio Marine Group play its role in providing awareness education and information that utilizes knowledge and experience that is unique to an insurance company.
Following our Green Lessons environmental awareness promotion program launched in fiscal 2005, from fiscal 2012 we have been actively developing Disaster Prevention Lessons as disasterprevention education that is even closer to the main business of an insurance company.
Community and social contribution activities. 
I’d like to see community and social contribution activities carried out with further cooperation with NGOs and NPOs in Japan.
The Green Gift Project, an initiative started in fiscal 2009, initially supported mangrove planting activities overseas. In October 2013, we expanded the scope of this initiative to environmental protection activities in Japan as well and we hold events in collaboration with NGOs and other bodies in various regions throughout the country.
December 6, 2012. 
Community and social contribution activities. 
I hope to see support that enables employees (individuals) to independently participate in community and social contribution activities that transcend the bounds of business.
We continually think of creative ways for enabling employees to independently participate in community and social contribution activities through initiatives such as the following. •Creation of “List of Recommended Initiatives” that compiles tips for planning community and social contribution activities at each workplace •Participation in initiatives undertaken by the NGOs and NPOs that we support •Plan volunteer tours to support disaster regions and hold in-house solicitations of tour participants. 
December 16, 2013. 
Community and social contribution activities. 
Solving social issues is requiring even more expertise. I’d like to see activities carried out with an awareness of collaborating with local governments, universities, specialist institutions, NPOs and residents. Also, I’d like to see the development of the next generation of people who will work to protect the environment in regional communities.
We are carrying out industry-academia collaborative risk research with universities and strengthening collaboration with local governments and NPOs in domestic environmental protection activities while working to solve various social issues. We are undertaking environmental awareness and education activities through the implementation of Green Lessons for elementary school children and carrying out environmental protection activities in the Green Gift Project.
CSR management I suggest setting “development of people” as materiality and ascertain needs in each region while promoting financial and environmental education and advancing these with initiatives used in your main business.
We set “Supporting People” as one core CSR theme in the new mid-term business plan (FY 2015–2017) and are implementing CSR. From fiscal 2012 we have been holding Disaster Prevention Lessons to raise the disaster prevention awareness of elementary school children. We will reflect regional characteristics and the outcomes of industryacademia collaborative risk research to the present into this program while also focusing on further improving this program. We have also started the development of a financial education program based on the theme of insurance as our main business.
Date of dialogue Items Opinions Status of Group’s response. 
January 30, 2015. 
Taking on the challenge of meeting global social issues. 
I’m hoping to see Tokio Marine Group utilize its knowledge and experience and actively participate in United Nations partnerships and international conferences for disaster prevention and mitigation as well as play an active role in the creation of an international framework as a Japanese company and an industry opinion leader.
Tokio Marine Group participates in the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR) — Private Sector Alliance for Disaster Resilient Societies (ARISE) and the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). At the Third United Nations World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction held in Sendai in March 2015, we disseminated information about such industry-academia collaborative research results as a stochastic risk assessment method for earthquake-induced tsunamis as well as the Group’s disaster-related solutions and promoted discussions for deploying the roles fulfilled by the insurance industry toward solving disaster issues and reducing damage. A Group member is presently participating in the creation of a framework for global climaterelated financial disclosures as a member of the Financial Stability Board’s (FSB’s) Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
Visualization of the social impact of CSR. 
Amid expectations for strategic CSR by companies, it is essential to incorporate a perspective that looks at what types of impact Tokio Marine Group’s activities are having on social issues. I’d like to see this done, for example, through the “visualization” and disclosure of the impact of mangrove planting on local communities.
We commissioned an external think tank to investigate the social impact of mangrove planting that we have carried out since 1999. Calculations show that as of the end of March 2014, mangrove planting has generated economic value of around 35 billion yen and brought positive effects to the mangrove forests and the approximately 1.25 million people living in the surrounding regions. We introduce the Mangrove Planting Project in our news releases as well as in a Special Feature article in the CSR Booklet 2016.
Take on the challenge of turning risks into “opportunities”
I would like to see Tokio Marine Group, as a professional in risk management, turn future risks of the global community into “opportunities.”
We will seize changes in risk accompanying the frequent occurrence of natural disasters and shifting demographics as business opportunities that lead to growth. We will also further advance our CSR initiatives that bring major changes to risk and will focus efforts on our three core CSR themes of “Providing Safety and Security,” “Protecting the Earth” and “Supporting People.” By doing so, we will contribute to the creation of a secure, safe and sustainable future.
CSR materiality and CSR approach • Isn’t “Information Security” also an important issue as a core CSR theme? • How about rearranging core CSR themes into five steps as a CSR approach? • We reflected these opinions in Tokio Marine Group’s CSR materiality (important issues) and core CSR themes set in accordance with the new midterm business plan “To Be a Good Company 2017.” This included setting “Information Security” as an element of internal control within CSR materiality (important issues). • We established a “CSR approach” that rearranged core CSR themes into five steps to ensure that the actions of each employee lead to value generation in the future.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


31. 
Date of dialogue Items Opinions Status of Group’s response. 
February 17, 2016. 
CSR initiatives through our main business. 
I’d like to see Tokio Marine, as a trailblazing company in CSR, express the direction it intends to advance its CSR activities that are connected to the 2030 global SDGs.
In our Sustainability Report 2016, we established the item “Relationship between Group Initiatives and SDGs” and expressed the direction of efforts for CSR activities that are connected to the SDGs.
Disseminating information to society. 
I felt that the communication and design were inadequate. I look forward to seeing Tokio Marine Group disseminate information with a greater awareness of the visualization and visibility of its CSR activities.
We created and published CSR Booklet 2016 keeping in mind communication and design. This booklet won the “Easy-to-Understand Award” in the UCDA Award 2016. Besides obtaining UCDA Easy-to-Understand certification, we disseminated information in CSR Booklet 2017 by utilizing infographics.
Toward “To be a Good Company”
Companies are public institutions within society that contribute to society through their businesses. In doing so, three key factors enable companies to carry out vigorous business operations. The first is to contribute to all company stakeholders that include employees, customers, suppliers, local communities and the earth. The second is to continuously contribute to all stakeholders over the medium and long term rather than pursuing short-term results. The third is to take on challenges assuming maximum tolerable risk.
The idea that “companies are public institutions within society that contribute to society through their businesses” corresponds with Tokio Marine Group’s thinking that “CSR is synonymous with the implementation of its Corporate Philosophy and that promoting efforts to solve societal issues will lead to the Group’s sustainable growth.” Tokio Marine Group will make unceasing efforts to be a “company indispensable throughout society” and that is chosen by customers by getting close to our customers and local communities and making efforts to support this challenge.
January 17, 2017. 
CSR initiatives through our main business: Providing value to stakeholders. 
To sustain operations over the long term, companies should arrange and rebuild their own mission and initiatives from the perspectives of principal stakeholders to provide appropriate value and ensure the allocation of returns to each respective stakeholder.
Tokio Marine Group believes CSR is synonymous with the implementation of its Corporate Philosophy and regards CSR as an issue for raising the trust of customers and local communities and for generating social value. In the future as well, we will focus on dialogue, collaboration and cooperation with stakeholders that include customers, business partners and members of the local community. We will also promote CSR activities with the participation of every employee through all our business activities, from the provision of products and services to donations and volunteer activities. Additionally, we will make efforts toward value creation together with our stakeholders.
Date of dialogue Items Opinions Status of Group’s response. 
January 17, 2017. 
Permeating CSR within the Group companies. 
The most important point in permeating CSR within a company is the understanding and strong message from top management. The next task is to build a scheme that skillfully involves employees.
Tokio Marine Group believes that CSR represents the implementation of its Corporate Philosophy and promotes CSR activities with the participation of every employee through all business activities. For example, with top management actively leading the way, Tokio Marine Group participates in initiatives for “learning about,” “watching” and “taking part in” sports for persons with disabilities and widely disseminates information about these initiatives and their value across society through its CSR Booklet.
ESG investment becomes mainstream. 
I am hoping to see Tokio Marine Group make efforts to further enhance and promote ESG investment initiatives and ESG information disclosure.
Three Tokio Marine Group companies, namely Tokio Marine Asset Management, Tokio Marine Capital and Tokio Marine & Nichido, are signatories to The Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) of the UNEP FI and are working to promote ESG investment as asset managers and as asset owners and will step up these efforts in the future.
December 20, 2017. 
Contributing to the attainment of SDGs through business activities. 
SDGs require the efforts of the private sector based on the idea of benefits for five sides that include sellers, buyers, society, our future and the earth. One of the main facets of the SDGs is “No one left behind,” which values inclusiveness and diversity. One representative group that tends to get left behind is youth, who are the bearers of our future. The earth is something borrowed from our children. Therefore, I ask for everyone’s cooperation in promoting the SDGs to ensure the earth continues to be sustainably handed down as something beautiful to the next generation.
Tokio Marine Group has set “Supporting People” as one core CSR theme and actively promotes education and awareness activities for children, who are responsible for our future. For example, Tokio Marine Group holds a variety of programs with the participation of all employees that include Disaster Prevention Lessons to prepare for the next major disaster and Green Lessons based on the theme of mangroves (both for elementary school children) as well as Group Work on Managing Risks and Opportunities (for junior high school and high school students), a career education program that provides an awareness of insurance through a management game. In the future as well, Tokio Marine Group will promote education and awareness activities for children.
Responding to the protection gap. 
Urbanization and slumification are progressing throughout the world. During the next 10 years, 95% of the world’s urbanization will occur in developing countries while the population of persons living under vulnerable circumstances will also increase. These persons are especially vulnerable to disasters. Natural disasters are increasing in scale due in part to the impact of climate change. Protecting these vulnerable persons is thus also one reason for companies to promote the SDGs.
In 2001, Tokio Marine Group established IFFCOTOKIO General Insurance Co., Ltd. (IFFCO-TOKIO), a non-life insurance company, as a joint venture with Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited (IFFCO), which has a nationwide network of 38,000 member cooperatives, and started offering auto, fire and other insurance in India. At the same time, Tokio Marine Group sought to resolve the lifestyle of uncertainty faced by farmers in India through insurance and is developing and providing weather insurance and microinsurance (low-cost insurance) as well as accident insurance as an incidental to fertilizer and grain and medical insurance with subsidies from the local state governments in India’s rural communities. In the future, Tokio Marine Group will continue contributing to the development of regional communities and solving poverty issues by providing products and services for socially vulnerable persons in India and other regions.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


32. 
Date of dialogue Items Opinions Status of Group’s response. 
December 20, 2017. 
Principlesbased regulatory compliance and sustainable corporate value creation. 
The dramatically accelerating speed of technological progress and innovation has made it increasingly difficult for regulatory and supervisory authorities to assume every situation and establish rules beforehand. Regulatory authorities thus have no choice but to just issue major policies such as corporate governance codes. Against this backdrop, respective corporate governance reforms are being undertaken, such as those implemented globally to “prevent a recurrence of the so-called Lehman Brothers shock,” as well as those in Japan to “raise earnings power.” All of these aim toward the direction of “sustainable corporate value creation.” In Tokio Marine Group as well, I look forward to seeing the establishment of principles-based management strategies and policies and the promotion of management that sustainably raises corporate value.
Tokio Marine Group believes CSR is synonymous with the implementation of its Corporate Philosophy and strives to strengthen its management foundation throughout all its business activities. Regarding corporate governance, Tokio Marine Group has endorsed the Corporate Governance Code and aims to build a sustainable management structure based on the principles of the Code. For example, under the Corporate Governance Code, publicly listed companies should appoint at least two independent outside directors. However, the Company proceeded early on to strengthen corporate governance functions such as by appointing three or more outside directors since the establishment of the current company in 2002. Going forward, Tokio Marine Group will work to raise corporate value in a sustainable manner.
ESG investment becomes mainstream. 
As expressed in “Guidance for Integrated Corporate Disclosure and Company-Investor Dialogues for Collaborative Value Creation” (Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation) announced by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) in 2017, companies must demonstrate to investors that solving issues related to ESG through business activities is the source of corporate value creation. Rather than talking about only individual elements of ESG, companies are being asked to comprehensively identify these as elements of medium-to-long-term risks and opportunities and consider how these elements are being incorporated into corporate growth strategies, what type of influence these have on the sustainability of business models and how these are being addressed strategically.
Tokio Marine Group regards ESG issues that are strongly connected to the insurance business, such as “climate change and natural disasters,” “demographic changes” and “technology innovation,” as CSR materiality. Tokio Marine Group is working to create a society resilient to natural disasters, promote health management and support the building of an ultra-smart society through all its business activities, from providing products and services to promoting donation and volunteer activities. In these areas as well, we will also comprehensively consider ESG issues as risk and opportunity elements and make efforts to solve social issues and raise corporate value. Moreover, through our Integrated Annual Report and Sustainability Report, we will strive to further enhance communication with investors and other stakeholders regarding our initiatives aimed at solving ESG issues.
Date of dialogue Items Opinions Status of Group’s response. 
December 19, 2018. 
Management focused on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
An insurance company is a business operator having contact with people and companies in all business categories through its insurance business, involving a large number of stakeholders and having a significant impact on society through product development. I hope you will incorporate the globally pursued SDGs into your management strategies, promote the permeation of these goals within the Group and take the lead in efforts to increase their recognition worldwide.
For Tokio Marine Group, the resolution of social issues is the very goal of our business, and we have been working to resolve natural disaster and other social issues even before the SDGs were adopted. In fiscal 2019, we will step up our efforts by explicitly integrating the SDGs into the Group CSR strategies. Working with our stakeholders, we will continue to endeavor for the resolution of social issues through all our business activities from a long-term perspective.
Value creation story We are in an age in which the quality of conveying a company’s value creation story is crucial in ensuring good investor relations (IR) and public relations (PR). I think you would be able to better express your philosophy “To Be a Good Company” if you can clearly define the link between the SDGs and your strengthbased business model and business model-based value creation story.
Since fiscal 2018, Tokio Marine Group has been referring to the Guidance for Integrated Corporate Disclosure and Company-Investor Dialogues for Collaborative Value Creation advocated by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in preparing its Integrated Annual Reports. In the 2019 Integrated Annual Report, we incorporated the SDGs into our value creation model and showed our initiatives toward the attainment of the SDGs in a table in the Environmental, Social and Governance Initiatives and Contributions to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals section. We will continue to improve the quality of conveying our value creation story.
Promoting the permeation of the SDGs throughout the Group. 
I believe efforts to promote the permeation of the SDGs throughout the Group should be made in a way that factors in the individual positions and roles at the management level and at the actual operation level. For sales personnel, for example, it is essential to organize the SDGs-related initiatives into easily comprehensible, familiar themes from their perspective. Providing relevant education regarding them is also important.
We will promote the permeation of the SDGs throughout the Group by using CSR Dialogues and the CSR Board at the management level. At the actual operation level, we will do so by providing training for CSR Key Persons (CSRKP), CSR education and SDGs-related tools. For the latter, the CSR Division and other relevant departments jointly support the development of tools to raise awareness of SDGs. From fiscal 2019, we also changed the name of our annual CSR Booklet to the Sustainability Booklet to clearly show the link between the Group’s initiatives and the SDGs. We will use the booklet in promoting the permeation of the SDGs throughout the Group and communicating with customers with regard to the SDGs.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


33 [Fundamental Policy]
Tokio Marine Holdings is working to enhance the trust from the capital market, promote an understanding of its efforts to increase corporate value and spread correct recognition of the. 
Company by ensuring transparency and accountability in its disclosures and providing its information in a timely, fair and ongoing manner.
Additionally, it holds constructive dialogue between management and shareholders and investors in order to understand an overall perception of Tokio Marine Holdings from the general public and conditions in the capital market. The gained opinions and suggestions are fed back broadly throughout the Company, including management. By doing so, we seek to further enhance our corporate value.
[Dialogue with Investors]
Dialogue with Institutional Investors. 
Besides conference calls on financial results and IR briefings, we hold individual meetings in Japan and additional IR briefings overseas in order to engage in dialogue broadly with shareholders and investors. In fiscal 2019, we held such dialogues with a total of 723 companies.
In New York, we hosted a special meeting with the participation of top management of our Group companies overseas and held detailed and constructive dialogue mainly on topics of interest to investors. Participating investors provided positive feedback. Some stated that they gained confidence in. 
Tokio Marine Holdings after hearing about its approach and efforts related to M&A and post-merger integration (PMI) from top management of overseas Group companies, while others sensed steady progress in integrated Group management as the top management of each company has built a very good relationship with each other.
Tokio Marine Group promotes local community and social contribution activities in collaboration with NPOs committed to solving various issues in local communities. For the Mangrove Planting. 
Project, one of the most notable initiatives undertaken by the Group, we have formed a long-term partnership with the NGO Action for Mangrove Reforestation (ACTMANG) specialized in mangrove planting, Organization for Industrial, Spiritual and Cultural Advancement-International (OISCA) and International Society for Mangrove Ecosystems (ISME). Besides planting mangroves, we also cooperate in improving environmental awareness and promoting industries in designated planting regions, such as providing environmental education and workshops for local residents and children.
In Japan, we collaborate with Nippon NPO Center, eight Environmental Partnership Offices located nationwide and environment-related NPOs throughout the country and carry out the Green Gift. 
Planet GENKI Program that encourages experience-based, environmental protection activities primarily targeting children.
Dialogue with Individual Investors. 
In addition to a briefing led by the Group CEO, we held a total of eight briefings by the Group CFO, Group Deputy CFO and Investor Relations Department in fiscal 2019 to explain in an easy-to-understand manner topics of major interest to individual investors, including the Group’s management strategy and shareholder return.
Feedback. 
Tokio Marine Holdings also emphasizes its efforts to utilize the opinions of shareholders and investors gained through dialogue in improving corporate management by reporting them to top management and broadly throughout the. 
Company. These efforts have also served to familiarize employees with IR activities and resulted in an improvement in day-to-day operations.
Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors. 
Engagement with the Local Community. 
Special meeting in New York. 
Briefing for individual investors by Group CEO Satoru Komiya. 
Role-playing session by IR Group members simulating a meeting with investors. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


34. 
External Evaluations and Participation in Initiatives. 
Tokio Marine Group is working to improve its initiatives in environmental, social and governance (ESG) fields and has received numerous evaluations and awards in Japan and overseas. Also, to contribute to the creation of a safe, secure and sustainable future, Tokio Marine Group also participates in various initiatives that include the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the United. 
Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and the United Nations Principles for. 
Responsible Investment (PRI).
In recent years, attention has been focused on ESG investment, socially responsible investing (SRI) and sustainable and responsible investment, which evaluate the implementation status of corporate initiatives for ESG-related risks and business opportunities in addition to corporate financial performance from the perspective of the sustainability of society.
Tokio Marine Holdings works toward transparency in its disclosure of ESG information and has earned high acclaim from numerous global ESG and SRI indexes. As of the end of August 2020, Tokio Marine was listed in the ESG indexes shown below.
Evaluation from ESG Rating Agencies. 
Inclusion in ESG Index. 
ESG or SRI Index/ESG or SRI Rating Rating Agency. 
FTSE4 Good Index. 
FTSE Russell. 
FTSE Blossom Japan Index (ESG index)
FTSE Russell. 
MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index (ESG index)
MSCI. 
Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. 
Robeco SAM. 
Ethibel Sustainability Index. 
Forum Ethibel. 
ISS ESG. 
ISS ESG. 
S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index (themed index/environmental)
S&P/JPX. 
CDP (climate change)
CDP 2020 Health & Productivity Stock Selection (fifth consecutive year since 2016) Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 
Outstanding Health and Productivity Management 2020, large enterprise category (White 500)
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry 2020 Semi-Nadeshiko Brand Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


35. 
Tokio Marine Group supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO’s. 
International Labour Standards and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Also, Tokio Marine Group will contribute to the creation of a safe, secure and sustainable future in collaboration with various stakeholders through participation in such initiatives as the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the United Nations. 
Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), UNEP FI Principles for Sustainable Insurance (UNEP FI-PSI) and the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI).
■ Human Rights, Labour, the Environment and Anti-Corruption ■ Sustainable Finance and Insurance. 
The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a voluntary initiative for participation by companies in the creation of a global framework under which companies exercise responsible and creative leadership to act as good members of society to realize a sustainable society.
The ideas and contents of the Ten Principles concerning human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption advocated by the UNGC coincide with Tokio Marine Group’s own approach to sustainability as well as its Sustainability Charter. Therefore, Tokio Marine Holdings has been a signatory to and expresses its support for the UNGC since 2005.
Tokio Marine Holdings is participating in the United Nations Global. 
Compact Network Japan (GCNJ) and in fiscal 2019 participated in such initiatives as the Disaster Prevention and Mitigation Working Group and the Reporting-Related Study Working Group, among others. From fiscal 2020 and beyond, Tokio Marine Holdings will promote these initiatives in the “Participant” capacity.
* Tokio Marine Holdings summarizes and reports every year on the status of initiatives for addressing the Ten Principles of the United Nations. 
Global Compact.
Communication on Progress (PDF/663.3KB)
The United Nations Global Compact. 
UNEP FI Principles for Sustainable Insurance (UNEP FI-PSI)
The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)
Approximately 200 financial institutions around the world participate in the. 
United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), an initiative that surveys, researches and puts into practice business approaches that consider economic development, the environment and sustainability.
In December 2017, the Asia Pacific Roundtable marking UNEP FI’s 25th anniversary was held in Tokyo. Another conference, the Tokyo Dialogue on. 
Sustainable Finance convened by UNEP FI, was also held in Tokyo in June 2019. Tokio Marine & Nichido provided support for these conferences as a sponsor and participated in meetings and high-level panel sessions on the theme of climate-related financial data and other topics and contributed to the discussions at these conferences.
UNEP FI. 
The Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) of UNEP FI is a working group that surveys, researches and executes ESG initiatives in the insurance industry.
Tokio Marine & Nichido also supports the intent and policies of PSI spearheaded by UNEP FI, and in addition to co-hosting the PSI Regional. 
Consultation Meeting for Asia with UNEP FI in November 2011, the company participated in the formulation of principles of action and became a founding signatory to the PSI in June 2012. The company is promoting insurance industry initiatives that consider ESG issues together with insurance companies in regions around the world.
From fiscal 2018, Tokio Marine & Nichido participates in the PSI Task Force on. 
Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) Insurer Pilot Working Group and is working to create guidelines of climate-related financial disclosure based on TCFD recommendations related to the global insurance industry.
PSI of UNEF FI. 
Participation in Initiatives. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


36. 
Ministry of the Environment Principles for Financial Action toward a Sustainable Society (Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century)
Based on a suggestion from the Ministry of the Environment’s Central. 
Environment Council Expert Committee on Environment and Finance, the. 
Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century were compiled in 2011 by Japan’s Environmental Financial Action Principles Drafting Committee, which featured the participation of a wide range of financial institutions, with the aim of broadening the circle of initiatives for environmental financing.
The Principles for Financial Action are aimed at enabling domestic financial institutions to promote optimal initiatives in their main businesses for addressing a host of issues they face directly such as environmental, social and governance issues. Under these principles, the direction of which aligns with UNEP FI and the PRI, financial institutions seek to fulfill their necessary responsibilities and roles for the formation of a sustainable society based on their concerns about the future of the earth.
Within Tokio Marine Group, Tokio Marine & Nichido actively participated as a member of the drafting committee and the following six Group companies have agreed with the intent of and signed the. 
Principles. (As of August 31, 2020) •Tokio Marine & Nichido •Tokio Marine & Nichido Life Insurance •Nisshin Fire & Marine Insurance •E. design Insurance •Tokio Marine Millea SAST Insurance •Tokio Marine Asset Management. 
At the Ordinary Meeting of the Principles for Financial Action convened on March 11, 2015, earthquake and earthquake-induced tsunami risk research (industry-academia collaboration) carried out by Tokio. 
Marine & Nichido and Tohoku University was selected as a Good Practice (insurance category). In fiscal 2019, Tokio Marine & Nichido and other companies participated in the initiatives of the Insurance Business. 
Working Group.
In the future as well, Tokio Marine Group will continue to promote initiatives toward the formation of a sustainable society.
Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century ■ Sustainable Investment. 
Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI)
Japan Sustainable Investment Forum. 
The Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) is an initiative led by. 
UNEP FI and the UNGC, which expresses and puts into practice stances and policies that consider ESG issues in investment decisions by financial institutions and institutional investors.
The following Tokio Marine Group companies agree with the thinking of the PRI and have signed the Principles.
Japan Sustainable Investment Forum (JSIF), a not-for-profit organization (NPO), carries out activities to promote the spread and development in. 
Japan of sustainable investment and ESG investment, which are actively undertaken in Europe and the United States. JSIF functions as a venue for information and opinion exchanges, discussions and investigative research among persons involved with ESG investment and aims for the sound development of ESG investment and for the building of a sustainable society.
As a member of JSIF, Tokio Marine & Nichido is participating in investigative research on ESG investment and in initiatives for the sound development of this investment.
Japan Sustainable Investment Forum (JSIF)
Signatories (Timing) Initiatives. 
Tokio Marine Asset Management (April 2011)
Signed the UN-supported PRI initiative, accepting these Principles as an asset management company. The company established a responsible investment committee composed of the chief asset managers of each asset class, as well as a responsible investment group. Through these steps, the company develops basic policies, processes and systems concerning responsible investment and undertakes initiatives that take into account ESG issues during investment analysis, product development and exercise of voting rights.
Tokio Marine & Nichido (August 2012) As an insurance firm that has taken ESG issues into account in its insurance underwriting, investment analysis and other actions, the company signed the PRI.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


37 ■ Climate Change and Natural Disasters. 
Caring for Climate. 
Launched in 2007, Caring for Climate is an international initiative convened by the UNGC, UNEP and. 
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) that is aimed at expanding the roles of business in devising climate change measures. As a member of Caring for Climate, Tokio. 
Marine & Nichido is promoting initiatives for climate change measures.
Tokio Marine & Nichido’s Mangrove Planting Project that commenced in 1999 and its Green Gift. 
Project that began in 2009 were incorporated as leading climate change adaptation practices in the. 
Caring for Climate report released in 2015 and entitled “The Business Case for Responsible Corporate. 
Adaptation: Strengthening Private Sector and Community Resilience.” This report was made public at the Caring for Climate Business Forum, an event related to COP21 convened in Paris in December 2015.
Caring for Climate. 
A Caring for Climate Report(PDF/3.0MB)
The United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR) — Private Sector Alliance for. 
Disaster Resilient Societies (ARISE)
In November 2015, the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), a strategic framework for disaster risk reduction adopted by United Nations member countries in 2000, launched Private Sector Alliance for Disaster Resilient Societies (ARISE) toward the strengthening and reorganization of the Private Sector Partnership for Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR-PSP) for disaster prevention that Tokio Marine & Nichido joined in 2014.
Tokio Marine & Nichido participated as a member of DRR-
PSP in the Third United Nations World Conference on. 
Disaster Risk Reduction held in March 2015 in Sendai and sponsored by UNDRR. Tokio Marine & Nichido contributed to the success of the conference by holding three public forums and operating an exhibition booth in cooperation with Tohoku University and The Geneva Association.
In June 2014, Tokio Marine & Nichido participated in the 6th Asian Ministerial Conference on Disaster. 
Risk Reduction in Bangkok, Thailand, sponsored by UNDRR and the government of Thailand, and in November 2016 participated in the 7th Asian Ministerial Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction held in New Delhi, India, and sponsored by UNDRR and the government of India. In July 2018, Tokio. 
Marine & Nichido participated in the 2018 Asian Ministerial Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction held in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, and sponsored by UNDRR and the government of Mongolia. At these conferences, Tokio Marine & Nichido made presentations on its industry-academia collaboration initiatives as well as on the economic value of mangrove planting.
On March 10, 2017, ARISE Network Japan held a public symposium in Tokyo based on the theme “How businesses meet the challenge of extreme weather events ~ The challenge of companies toward disaster resilience.” Tokio Marine Research Institute held a lecture based on the theme “Modeling flood risks of the Arakawa River valley during global warming under future climate change” and disseminated information that included research outcomes through the promotion of industry- academia collaboration.
Tokio Marine Group will continue to contribute to the creation of a safe, secure and resilient future.
Convening of Public Forums at the Third UN World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction (in Japanese) (PDF/2.966MB)
The Geneva Association — Climate Change and Emerging Environmental Topics (CC+EET)
The Geneva Association is an insurance industry think tank composed of approximately 80 executives from major insurance companies around the globe. As Vice Chairman of the Geneva Association, Tsuyoshi Nagano,
Chairman of Tokio Marine Holdings, leads and supports surveys and research on important insurance industry issues (financial stabilization and regulation, extreme events and climate risk, aging of society, etc.) handled by the association. At the same time, as. 
Joint-Chairman of the “Climate Change and Emerging Environmental Topics” working group, he is taking the lead in undertaking surveys and research on climate change and natural disaster risk and disseminating related information to society.
Third United Nations World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction (Sendai, March 2015)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


38. 
Asia-Pacific Financial Forum. 
The Asia-Pacific region faces high natural disaster risk and many areas are vulnerable to natural disasters. At the same time, the region is also accumulating assets along with economic growth.
In view of these factors, enhancing economic indemnification against natural disasters in some form is an urgent issue for the sound development of Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) member economies and also from humanitarian and national finance perspectives.
The Asia-Pacific Financial Forum (APFF), established in April 2013 in response to this situation as a platform for public-private sector cooperation under APEC to promote the further integration and development of financial and capital markets and financial services in the Asia-Pacific region, recognizes disaster risk as one principal issue and has established a review team. In September 2015, the Cebu Action Plan (CAP) was adopted at the APEC Finance Ministers’ Process (FMP). Within the CAP, disaster risk financing and insurance* (DRFI) was declared as a priority issue and the importance of collaboration with the private sector was emphasized.
To implement the action issues specified under the CAP, the Working Group on Disaster Risk Financial. 
Solutions composed of finance authorities from nine APEC member economies and related international organizations was launched and the APFF is participating in discussions as a member. As part of such initiatives, Tokio Marine & Nichido held the industry-academia collaboration panel discussion “Building a disaster-resilient community in the Asia-Pacific – The power of science and insurance” at the World Bosai. 
Forum in Sendai, Miyagi Prefecture, in November 2017. At this forum, a discussion was held on the ways scientific knowledge is helpful in designing disaster risk financing from the perspective of the Asia-Pacific region and the points of this discussion were reflected in the chairperson’s summary at this forum.
Meanwhile, the APFF participated in the APEC Workshop on Financial Management of Public Assets against Disaster Risks, which was held in June 2018 at the World Bank’s Tokyo office for finance authorities in APEC member economies. At this workshop, the APFF demonstrated actual examples of how risk modeling techniques of insurance companies can be used effectively in disaster risk management for public assets and emphasized the effectiveness of participation by private-sector insurance companies in preparing for public asset disaster risk. In October 2019, the APFF participated in the APEC Seminar on Disaster Risk Finance: Enhancing Financial Risk Management against Disasters held in Santiago, Chile, to share its knowledge on how private-sector insurance companies can contribute to the design and promotion of effective disaster risk finance programs.
Tokio Marine & Nichido (Masaaki Nagamura, Fellow) is participating as a member of APFF and is leading discussions on DRFI within APFF.
Tokio Marine Group will contribute to the creation of sustainable frameworks that respond to the state of development in each economy through dialogue with finance authorities in each country as well as with other finance and insurance related parties.
* DRFI is a broad concept that bundles multiple countries and offers a wide variation of insurance schemes that range from insurance that covers natural disaster risk, with countries being the insured party, to schemes under which private-sector insurance companies provide earthquake insurance coverage for individual customers possessing regular homes and household goods, with governments serving as reinsurers.
ClimateWise. 
ClimateWise is an initiative in which approximately 30 leading insurers from around the world jointly carry out studies and research on various risks and opportunities related to climate change and make recommendations toward reducing the risks that climate change imposes on economic and social life. The initiative is operated by the University of. 
Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (CISL) and participants from Tokio Marine Group include Tokio Marine & Nichido, Tokio Marine. 
Kiln and Tokio Marine HCC. Tokio Marine Kiln Group CRO Vivek Syal serves as a member of the ClimateWise Advisory Council.
In the future as well, Tokio Marine Group will continue to promote efforts toward mitigating and adapting to climate change in accordance with the seven ClimateWise Principles.
Activities Report. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido submits an annual activities report based on ClimateWise Principles to. 
ClimateWise (Secretariat: United Kingdom).
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


39 ■ Climate Change Disclosure. 
CDP. 
Financial Stability Board (FSB) Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an organization that drives an initiative under which the world’s principal institutional investors cooperate in calling for companies worldwide to disclose their climate change strategies (risks and opportunities) and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Tokio Marine Holdings participates every year as a CDP. 
Signatory and is supporting surveys in the areas of corporate climate change strategies and GHG emissions as well as energy usage.
The Financial Stability Board (FSB) is a body that promotes coordination among authorities responsible for responding to vulnerabilities in the financial system and for ensuring the stability of the financial system.
Participants include representatives from central banks, financial supervisory authorities and finance ministries from various countries and regions as well as from principal standards establishment entities, the. 
IMF, World Bank, Bank for International Settlements and OECD.
The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) is entrusted by the FSB to formulate voluntary recommendations for consistent, comparable, reliable, clear and efficient climate-related disclosures by companies in the financial sector and it released its final recommendations in June 2017.
Tokio Marine Holdings is supporting the activities of the TCFD and is working toward policy recommendations for encouraging disclosure that will contribute to the enhancement of investment decisions by engaging in discussions and exchanging opinions with public and private parties in. 
Japan and overseas.
■ Environmental Value Creation. 
Ministry of the Environment Eco-First System. 
Eco-First is a system under which companies pledge to the Ministry of the. 
Environment that they will proactively undertake initiatives for protecting the environment that include adopting global warming countermeasures and waste and recycling measures. Under the system, the ministry certifies those companies (top-notch companies within the industry) that “carry out visionary and unique business activities that lead the industry” in environmental fields.
In 2008 Tokio Marine & Nichido was certified as an Eco-First company.
In fiscal 2014, Tokio Marine & Nichido obtained recertification under its new regulations. This was in recognition of initiatives aimed at protecting the earth’s environment, curbing global warming and preventing and reducing damage caused by natural disasters through the insurance business. These include “offering environment-conscious insurance with the participation of customers through the Green Gift Project” and “research centered on industry-academia collaboration that focuses on climate change and natural disasters.” The main activities being undertaken by Tokio Marine & Nichido as an Eco-First company are as follows.
• Provision of environmentally conscious insurance with the participation of customers through the Green Gift Project • Reducing own CO2 emissions by 40% by fiscal 2020 (compared with fiscal 2006) • Implementing environmental awareness activities for children such as the Children’s Environmental Award program, Green Lessons, Disaster. 
Prevention Lessons and others.
In fiscal 2019, as a top-notch company within the insurance industry,
Tokio Marine & Nichido participated in events sponsored by the Eco-First. 
Promotion Council together with other Eco-First companies and carried out environmental awareness activities. Going forward, Tokio Marine &
Nichido will continue to promote initiatives for protecting the global environment and preventing global warming as an Eco-First company.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


40. 
Endorsement of the Ministry of the Environment's COOL CHOICE. 
Endorsement of the Ministry of the Environment’s “Fun to Share” Climate Change Campaign. 
Green Purchasing Network. 
The government of Japan has set the target of attaining a 26% reduction in GHG emissions by 2030 compared with fiscal 2013. COOL CHOICE is a national campaign that encourages all “smart choices” that contribute to countermeasures for global warming, including for Japan’s energy-saving and low-carbon products, services and behavior.
Tokio Marine & Nichido endorses COOL CHOICE, a national campaign being carried out by the government to counter global warming, and will work to make “smart choices” that contribute to the realization of low- carbon operations in all business activities. This includes not only striving for power savings in summer and winter but also in areas ranging from products and services to donations and volunteer activities.
The Ministry of the Environment has been undertaking the Fun to Share climate change campaign since March 2014. By sharing with all citizens information, technologies and knowledge leading to the creation of an enriched low-carbon society, the campaign aims to not only foster interest in and a sense of crisis about global warming concerns but also create opportunities for linking companies, organizations, communities and citizens and realize Japan’s first “Lifestyle Innovation,” in which Japan can take pride, throughout the world.
Tokio Marine & Nichido has endorsed the Fun to Share campaign and is actively promoting initiatives toward the realization of a low-carbon society.
The Green Purchasing Network was established in 1996 as a facilitative network and an information-disseminating organization of companies, government agencies and non-government organizations leading the way in green purchasing. The network was established based on the recognition that green purchasing plays a crucial role in the formation of markets for environment-friendly products and represents an extremely effective means of promoting the development of environment-friendly products through markets and by extension for building a sustainable society. As a member of the Green Purchasing Network, Tokio Marine &
Nichido promotes initiatives for green purchasing.
Tokio Marine & Nichido is a member of the Green Purchasing Network.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


41. 
Governance. 
To earn the trust of all people and society and achieve sustained growth, Tokio Marine Group must raise the quality of initiatives for addressing governance issues based on “governance,” “internal control” and “risk management” and build a resilient structure for highly sound and transparent management as a global insurance group.
Tokio Marine Group is “strengthening sustainability management” as the basis for implementing sustainability initiatives. Tokio Marine Group will strive to make qualitative improvements to corporate governance, compliance and risk-based management (ERM: enterprise risk management) from the perspective of strengthening global-based operations and management while responding appropriately to changes in the global economy and financial environment and the strengthening of international supervisory regulations, as well as make efforts to generate and distribute economic value. By doing so, Tokio Marine Group aims to raise the level of stakeholder trust and contribute to the creation of a secure, safe and sustainable future.
Tokio Marine Holdings has formulated the “Fundamental Corporate Governance Policy” and appropriately exercises control over its Group companies. To achieve further development as a corporate group possessing profitability, growth potential and soundness, in accordance with the “Basic Policies for Internal Controls,” Tokio Marine Holdings has appropriately established and operates an internal control system for management control of Group companies as well as for compliance and risk management.
Through the application of its Corporate Philosophy, Tokio Marine Group strives to contribute to the sustainable development of society while perpetually enhancing the Group’s corporate value. Based on this thinking, we formulated the “Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter” as action guidelines for all employees and are working to respect and promote the recognition of human rights among stakeholders and in our value chain. Additionally, we aim to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society through sustainable investments and financing that gives consideration to environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues.
Value Creation. 
Continuously Enhancing Shareholder Value. 
Creating a Society Where People Can Live with Security through Sustainable Investments and Financing >> Tokio Marine Group gives consideration to the environment, including climate change, as well as to society and governance in its investment and financing operations.
Promoting ESG Initiatives through the Provision of Products and Services >> Tokio Marine Group promotes ESG initiatives through the provision of products and services across its sphere of influence.
Sustainability in the Value Chain >> We are executing environmental, social and governance (ESG) initiatives that are integrated into our value chain. In terms of respect for human rights, in particular, we strive to respect and promote the recognition of human rights within the value chain based on the Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter.
Respect for Human Rights >> In implementing our Corporate Philosophy, we have formulated the Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter as principles of conduct required from the perspective of social responsibility, and we strive to respect and promote the recognition of human rights among stakeholders.
Initiatives for Building a Decarbonized Society >> Tokio Marine Group specifies climate change and natural disasters as issues having sustainability materiality (material sustainability issues) and is disclosing climate-related information based on the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
Internal Control >> The Tokio Marine Group’s internal control initiatives are introduced.
Corporate Governance >> We formulated the Tokio Marine Holdings Fundamental Corporate Governance Policy.
Sustainability Materiality(Material Issues) • Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) • Corporate governance / Internal control • Strengthening of international supervisory regulations • Changes in the global economy and financial environment • Generate and distribute economic value. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


42. 
Corporate Governance Internal Control. 
Tokio Marine Holdings (“the Company”) is committed to the continuous enhancement of corporate value by fulfilling its responsibilities to shareholders, customers, society, employees and other stakeholders as set forth in the “Tokio Marine Group Corporate Philosophy.”
For this purpose, the Company recognizes the importance of establishing a sound and transparent corporate governance system and exercising appropriate control over its Group companies as a holding company and has formulated the “Tokio Marine Holdings Fundamental Corporate Governance Policy.” In this Policy, the Company defines the rights of shareholders, the measures for securing fairness, and the responsibilities of the Board of Directors, etc. Tokio Marine Holdings Fundamental Corporate Governance Policy. 
Tokio Marine Holdings (“the Company”) has formulated the “Basic Policies for Internal Controls.”
In accordance with these policies, the Company has established an internal control system for the entire Tokio Marine Group that encompasses structures for management control, compliance and anti-corruption, risk management, customer protection, response to anti-social forces and internal auditing of Group companies. The Company employs this system to ensure proper operations while raising corporate value.
Additionally, the Company monitors the status and practical application of its internal control system.
The Board of Directors confirms the details of the monitoring based on the results of deliberations at the Internal Control Committee. In addition, the Company continually strengthens and improves its internal control system on the basis of monitoring results.
Basic Policies for Internal Controls. 
In March 2015, “The Council of Experts Concerning the Corporate Governance Code” (Chairman: Kazuhito Ikeo, Professor of Economics and Finance, Keio University), for which the Financial Services Agency and Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. serve as joint secretariat, finalized and announced the draft version of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code under the title “Seeking Sustainable Corporate Growth and Increased Corporate Value over the Medium to Long Term” based on the Japan Revitalization Strategy (revised in 2014 and approved by the Cabinet in June 2014). In response, the Corporate Governance Code, which consists of the content of this original draft proposal for this Code, was formulated on the Tokyo Stock Exchange and other financial securities exchanges. Application of the Corporate Governance Code began in June 2015.
Corporate governance is a mechanism for companies to carry out transparent, fair, timely and decisive decision-making, with due attention to the needs and perspectives of shareholders and also customers, employees and local communities. The Corporate Governance Code encourages individual companies’ self-motivated actions so as to achieve sustainable growth and increase corporate value over the medium to long term and aims to promote the development and success of companies, investors and the Japanese economy as a whole.
The Company confirmed that it complies with all 73 principles of the Code, including Principle 2.3 referenced above, and submits the Corporate Governance Report (as of June 2020). The Company will continue to make efforts to enhance its corporate governance.
Corporate Governance (Corporate Governance Report)
Corporate Governance Code. 
Reference: Japan’s Corporate Governance Code Principle 2.3 Sustainability Issues, Including Social and Environmental Matters Companies should take appropriate measures to address sustainability issues, including social and environmental matters.
3. Information Security >>
In compliance with the Act on the Protection of Personal Information, the Act on the Use of Numbers to Identify a Specific Individual in the Administrative Procedure and relevant guidelines, the companies in Tokio Marine Group establish internal regulations, undertake employee education and monitoring and carry out thorough information management.
1. Compliance and Anti-Corruption >>
Tokio Marine Group’s Corporate Philosophy is to continuously enhance corporate value, with customer trust at the base of all its activities, and we position strict compliance at the heart of this Corporate Philosophy. Tokio Marine Group makes thorough efforts for observing applicable laws, rules and regulations and internal regulations and for conducting fair and equitable business activities within social norms.
2. Risk Management >>
To ensure financial soundness and appropriateness of business operations, Tokio Marine Group identifies various risks surrounding it in a comprehensive manner and implements appropriate risk management corresponding to the characteristics, status and other attributes of the risks.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


43. 
Tokio Marine Group, which places customer trust at the foundation of all its activities, is implementing various compliance-related initiatives based on its belief that it is important to thoroughly implement compliance through its day-to-day business, with employees and agents maintaining high ethical standards.
■Tokio Marine Group Compliance System. 
Tokio Marine Group defines compliance as “observing applicable laws, rules and regulations and internal regulations and conducting fair and equitable business activities within social norms” and thoroughly implements compliance in this manner.
Tokio Marine Holdings Compliance ■Tokio Marine Group Code of Conduct (Abridged)
Tokio Marine Group is committed to the continuous enhancement of its corporate value, with customer trust at the base of all its activities. The Tokio Marine Group Code of Conduct sets forth ethical standards that are essential for translating this Corporate Philosophy into action from a compliance perspective, and shall be given the highest priority in all aspects of our business operations and activities.
Tokio Marine Group Code of Conduct (abridged) ■Hotline System (Internal Whistleblower System)
There may be cases where it is not appropriate to report a possible compliance problem through a usual reporting channel set up within the organization. To prepare for such cases, we operate internal and external hotlines (whistleblower contact points) to receive reports and inquiries from directors, officers and employees of Group companies. We clearly specify in our regulations that we will never allow persons making such reports or inquiries and those cooperating in investigations to be exposed to negative consequences because of their action and keep details of reports and inquiries strictly confidential.
Tokio Marine Group Compliance ■Anti-Corruption Initiatives. 
Tokio Marine Group strives to resolve issues faced by society by making the most of its abundant knowledge and experience accumulated over many years in the insurance business. We contribute to 1. Compliance and Anti-Corruption the creation of a safe, secure and sustainable future while continuously raising our corporate value with the aim of becoming a “Good Company” trusted by local communities and society at large. Our anti-corruption activities are designed to help us become a “Good Company” and are indispensable in the creation of a sustainable future.
Tokio Marine Group formulated the Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter in 2004, which states, “While striving to maintain high ethical standards at all times, we will pursue strict compliance in all aspects of our business activities.” With this in mind, we are committed to promoting fair operating practices (including anti-corruption) in accordance with international standards. Pledging agreement with the intent and purpose of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2015, we are working on activities based on The Ten Principles of the UNGC relating to human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption.
Tokio Marine & Nichido, the Group’s major insurance company, states in its Compliance Manual a dedication to strict compliance with laws, regulations and internal rules, to the exercise of sincere and fair corporate activities in accordance with social norms, and to not accepting or giving gifts, donations, entertainment or other forms of bribery that are socially inappropriate or in violation of laws. As such, we are working hard to prevent corruption through all of our business activities.
In addition, at our Group companies in Japan and overseas, we are striving to prevent corruption through compliance with local laws and regulations and by adopting a compliance framework in due consideration of the laws and regulations of each country relating to the prohibition of bribery to public servants and other parties of other countries.
■ Response to Anti-Social Forces. 
Tokio Marine Group has formulated the “Tokio Marine Group Basic Policies Concerning Responses to Anti-social Forces” so that Group companies can resist anti-social forces and make concerted and uniform responses. Initiatives are being promoted based on the following basic concepts.
1. To ensure it consistently undertakes fair management and widely contributes to the development of society as a good corporate citizen, Tokio Marine Group shall sever all relationships with anti-social forces and forcefully repudiate any illicit demands made by them as a basic matter in the application of its Corporate Philosophy. In association with lawyers, police and other professionals, it will respond to anti-social forces in an uncompromising and organized manner.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


44 2. Tokio Marine Group shall respond to anti-social forces based on the following measures.
(1) Take action as a unified organization while ensuring the safety of directors, officers and employees; (2) Contact relevant external institutions that specialize in such matters; (3) Sever all known relationships, including transactions, and repudiate any illicit demands; (4) Take legal action at either the civil or criminal level for any contingency; and (5) Prohibit backroom deals and funding.
Taking into consideration the “Tokio Marine Group Basic Policies Concerning Responses to Anti- social Forces,” Tokio Marine Group shall promote initiatives that include setting up controlling departments, establishing reporting and consultation rules and systems for when a problem occurs and implementing training activities.
■Initiatives Concerning the Assurance of Appropriate Financial Reporting and Tax Reporting. 
Tokio Marine Group has formulated the Basic Policies for Accounting and established a structure for ascertaining the Company’s consolidated financial condition and the financial condition of. 
Group companies and for appropriately undertaking approval and reporting procedures directed at shareholders and supervisory agencies as well as for tax reporting.
Income taxes by country and region(PDF/347KB)
To ensure financial soundness and appropriateness of business operations, Tokio Marine Group identifies the various risks surrounding it in a comprehensive manner and implements appropriate risk management corresponding to the characteristics, status and other attributes of the risks.
Tokio Marine Holdings Risk Management ■ Risk Management System. 
To ensure financial soundness and appropriateness of business operations, Tokio Marine Group identifies various risks surrounding it in a comprehensive manner and implements appropriate risk management corresponding to the characteristics, status and other attributes of the risks. The. 
Company promotes the development and enhancement of the risk management system for the entire Group in accordance with the “Tokio Marine Group’s Basic Policies for Risk Management.” The. 
Company also carries out quantitative risk management for the entire Group in order to maintain credit ratings and to forestall insolvency in accordance with the “Tokio Marine Group’s Basic Policies for Integrated Risk Management.”
Among various risks, the Company recognizes that insurance underwriting and investment risks are core risks that must be managed as sources of earnings. The Company therefore controls these risks while considering the balance between risk and return. The Company also identifies administrative risk, system risk and other associated risks (such as cyber risk and risk of information leakage) that arise from the Group’s business activities and strives to prevent the occurrence of or reduce these risks.
The Company presents its basic policies for risk management and provides instruction, guidance, monitoring and other services to domestic and overseas Group companies through the Risk. 
Management Department and the Business Divisions. Group companies establish risk management policies in line with the policies of the Group and execute risk management independently. For cyber risk and risk of information leakage, the Company conducts tests relating to emergency response once a year and as a separate initiative teams up with other organizations to practice emergency response.
Through the above measures, the Company executes proper risk management and ensures stable business operations of the entire Group.
■ Basic Policy for Responding to Disasters (Tokio Marine & Nichido)
In the event of a natural disaster such as an earthquake or a typhoon, Tokio Marine & Nichido has a crucial social mission of ensuring that it can continue its important business operations as a non- life insurer such as receiving loss reports, paying claims, maturity refunds and other payables and concluding policies in both the disaster-stricken area and elsewhere.
Therefore, Tokio Marine & Nichido has prescribed the following two points as its Basic Policies of the. 
Business Continuity Plan for Disasters and formulated a business continuity plan (BCP).
Tokio Marine & Nichido’s Business Continuity Plan for Disasters, abridged version (in Japanese) (PDF/115.5KB)
Basic Policies of the Business Continuity Plan for Disasters 1. Principles of employees’ conduct in times of disasters. 
The priority order for employees’ conduct in times of disasters is as follows.
• Assure the safety of human life • Cooperate in securing the safety of local communities • Continue important operations (business continuity) 2. Risk Management. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


45. 
In other words, the principle of employees’ conduct is to give precedence to “assure the safety of human life” and “cooperate in securing the safety of local communities” before conduct related to “business continuity.” 2. Basic policy for business continuity. 
The following three business operations shall be regarded as important business operations during a disaster, management resources (personnel, funds) shall be transferred as needed and top priority shall be given to the continuation of these important business operations.
• Receiving of loss reports • Payment of claims, maturity refunds and other payables • Conclusion of insurance contracts ■ Building a Structure for Paying Insurance Claims in the Event of a Disaster Striking the Tokyo. 
Metropolitan Area. 
At Tokio Marine & Nichido, should the head office facilities in particular become unusable because of a disaster such as a major earthquake striking the metropolitan area, earthquake claims cases for residential earthquake insurance shall be handled in the Kansai region. Additionally, backup offices shall be launched at multiple bases throughout Japan, including in the Kansai region, and claims payment service responses, excluding on-site assessments after receiving claims, shall be made by all branches throughout Japan.
If the metropolitan area is struck by a disaster, a Claims Service Headquarters would be set up within the Head Office Disaster Response Headquarters. At the same time, a satellite office led by the Claims. 
Service Department in charge of Tokyo, Chiba, Saitama and Kanagawa prefectures shall be set up and will accept support personnel from throughout Japan and handle customer responses, mainly on-site claims assessments, in disaster-stricken areas.
The infrastructure needed to provide claims services swiftly to the metropolitan area in the event of a natural disaster has been built in advance in the locations where the above-mentioned backup offices and satellite offices would be established. In this way, a structure for claims payment services during times of emergency is being established. Non-earthquake regular claims cases, including for automobile accidents, shall be allocated to and handled by claims service bases throughout Japan prescribed in advance.
The Legal Compliance Department of Tokio Marine Holdings supervises information security for the entire Group as the controlling department while sections in charge of information security have been established at each Group company. In this manner, the Group is working to build an effective management structure for information security.
Tokio Marine Group Basic Policies for Information Security Management ■ Initiatives for Information Security. 
We thoroughly adhere to information security management rules to prevent information leakages. In particular, each Group company is adopting physical and technological safety-control measures that include locking away customers’ personal information and confidential documents when not in use, placing restrictions on taking documents and other items outside the company, and using encryption and setting passwords for electronic information.
Tokio Marine & Nichido has installed thin-client* terminals for its in-house intranet. Thin-client terminals are not equipped with hard disks and information is centrally managed and deployed from a server, which thereby further strengthens information security.
Acquisition of External Certification. 
Tokio Marine Group has acquired external certification for information security including Information. 
Security Management System (ISMS) certification. These achievements recognize the initiatives taken within the Group to protect personal information. The Group intends to make continuous improvements and to strengthen further its information security management structure.
Protection of Personal Information. 
In the area of personal information on customers, Tokio Marine Group has formulated and released the Tokio Marine Group Privacy Policy, which clarifies the Group policy for dealing with such information. At the same time, each Group company formulates and releases a policy of its own in accordance with the Privacy Policy.
3. Information Security *A method whereby the PC environment (client OS and applications) for each user is consolidated into and operated by the server. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


46. 
Privacy Policy <Tokio Marine Group Privacy Policy>
Tokio Marine Group (the “Group”) is committed to the continuous enhancement of corporate value, with customer trust at the foundation of all its activities. Guided by this corporate philosophy, we, the Group, shall comply with the Act on the Protection of Personal Information, Act on the Use of. 
Numbers to Identify a Specific Individual in the Administrative Procedure and other relevant laws, rules, regulations and guidelines, appropriately manage personal information, individual number and specific personal information (hereinafter referred to as “Specific Personal Information, etc.”) as well as anonymized information as described below, and implement other appropriate security measures for the protection of personal information of our customers.
1. We shall acquire personal information and Specific Personal Information, etc. of our customers in a manner that is both legal and fair. Unless prescribed by law, rule or regulation, we shall notify or publicize the purposes for using personal information and Specific Personal Information, etc. of our customers and shall use such information within these limits.
2. Unless prescribed by law, rule or regulation, we shall not provide personal information of our customers to third parties without prior consent of each such customer. We do not provide Specific. 
Personal Information, etc. to third parties except in cases provided by law. There shall be no joint use of Specific Personal Information, etc. with Group companies and business partners. Additionally, unless otherwise prescribed by law, rule or regulation, when we provide personal data to a third party, we shall record the matters pertaining to the provision, and when we acquire personal data from a third party, we shall verify and record the matters pertaining to the acquisition.
3. We shall strive to prevent the divulgence, destruction, impairment and unauthorized access of personal information and Specific Personal Information, etc. of our customers. When we contract out the management of personal information and Specific Personal Information, etc. of our customers to an outside service provider, we shall supervise the service provider appropriately, as needed.
4. Whenever we receive requests from our customers to view or update their personal data and. 
Specific Personal Information, etc. that we hold, we shall respond promptly in accordance with laws, rules and regulations. We also welcome comments and questions regarding the management of personal information and Specific Personal Information, etc. of our customers.
*“Personal information” and “personal data” provided in this Privacy Policy exclude Specific Personal Information, etc.
5. We shall provide thorough supervision, instructions and education to our employees who handle personal information, Specific Personal Information, etc. and anonymized information of our customers to ensure that such information is managed appropriately.
6. We shall continue to revise and aim to improve our internal systems and procedures to protect the personal information of our customers.
Tokio Marine Holdings Privacy Policy. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


47. 
Initiatives for Building a Decarbonized Society. 
The Paris Agreement, adopted at the 21st session of the Conference of the Parties to the United. 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) (COP21) held in December 2015, clearly sets out the world’s common long-term goal of keeping a global temperature rise well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. A new international framework to promote measures against climate change, as well as other actions specified for achieving this goal, are expected to affect future social and economic activities and facilitate the transition to a decarbonized society.
Toward the 2 degrees Celsius goal of the Paris Agreement, Tokio Marine Group will voluntarily implement measures against climate change and focus on encouraging the transition to a decarbonized society through constructive dialogue and collaboration with a number of stakeholders, from international organizations, the Japanese government and business and academic communities to non-profit organizations (NPOs) and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The. 
Group believes that it is also important to promote climate change measures as one pillar of its efforts to build a sustainable society, specifically when working to resolve various social issues and achieve the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) had been entrusted by the Financial. 
Stability Board (FSB) to formulate voluntary recommendations for consistent, comparable, reliable, clear and efficient climate-related disclosures by companies in the financial sector and released its final recommendations in June 2017.
Climate change and natural disasters represent a global issue and have a significant impact on. 
Tokio Marine Group as we engage in the insurance and financial services businesses. As such, Tokio. 
Marine Holdings is supporting the activities of the TCFD and is working toward the formulation of policy recommendations to encourage disclosure that will help investment decisions by engaging in discussions and exchanging opinions with relevant government and private-sector parties in Japan and overseas.
In July 2018, Tokio Marine & Nichido became a founding member of the insurer pilot group, launched by the United Nations Environment Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) under the Principles for Sustainable. 
Insurance (PSI) framework to examine and develop methodologies and analytical tools for the insurance industry to make climate-related disclosures based on the TCFD’s recommendations. In. 
Climate-Related Financial Disclosure Based on the Recommendations of the TCFD. 
Japan, the then Chairman of the Board of Tokio Marine Holdings worked as one of the founders and contributed to the establishment of the TCFD Consortium in May 2019.
After the establishment, Tokio Marine Holdings has been a member of the Planning Committee to deliberate on the consortium’s future course of action. The company also participates in discussion on effective ways for companies to disclose climate-related information and how to link the disclosed information to appropriate investment decision-making of financial and other organizations.
Tokio Marine Holdings has been making disclosures based on the TCFD’s recommendations starting from its Integrated Annual Report 2017.
The table below is an overview of the four fields of disclosure based on the TCFD’s recommendations.
In this report, we provide detailed information in each field.
Disclosure Based on the Recommendations of the TCFD. 
Climate-related Financial Disclosure based on Recommendations of the TCFD, Integrated Annual. 
Report 2020. 
External Evaluations and Participation in Initiatives (Climate Change Disclosure)­>>
Governance Strategies Risk management Metrics and targets a) Oversight by the Board of Directors b) Management role a) Climate-related risks and opportunities b) Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities c) Possible impact of different climate-related scenarios a) Process for identifying and assessing climaterelated risks b) Process for managing climate-related risks c) Integration of these processes into overall risk management a) Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities b) Scopes 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions c) Targets used to manage climate-related risks and opportunities. 
Source: Created by Tokio Marine Holdings based on the Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, Figure 4 (p.14), TCFD, June 2017. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


48 [Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities Concerning Tokio Marine Group’s Business Activities]
The following highlights major risks and opportunities that may have an impact on Tokio Marine. 
Group’s business activities.
• Physical Risk. 
There are several theories, but climate change due to global warming is considered to possibly bring about major changes in the frequency and scale of natural disasters in the future. As such, basing analyses only on past statistical data may prevent appropriate risk assessment and impact the calculation of insurance premiums and the ability to pay insurance claims in the event of a serious disaster. Thus, climate change may pose a threat to the non-insurance business and business activities of global companies. Occurrence of water immersion, power failure or other damage resulting from natural disasters at any of the bases of Tokio Marine Group may disrupt the Group’s business operations and cause financial impact, including response costs and lower revenues.
• Transition Risk. 
As the global momentum toward decarbonization accelerates and the transition to a decarbonized society progresses, we anticipate more stringent regulations, technological innovation, asset value fluctuations and changes in the investment environment as well as in customer needs, which may impact the Group’s businesses. We need to quickly respond to these changes and are working to identify our exposure to such transition risk and set up a required product development structure.
At the same time, we have already developed and have been offering products and services that cater to these diverse changes. We expect that the shift from existing products and services to decarbonized or low-carbon counterparts will be a gradual one, and the relatively short periods of non-life insurance contracts allow us to respond to the said changes flexibly and with agility.
• Opportunities. 
The path toward reducing GHG emissions entails both the use of clean energy and various technological innovations. Based on the Long-Term Strategy under the Paris Agreement approved by the Cabinet in June 2019, Japan formulated its Progressive Environment Innovation Strategy in. 
January 2020. The strategy aims to spur game-changing innovation of technologies in the energy and environment fields, in which Japan has strengths; to reduce associated costs to the level suitable for implementing these technologies in society; and to make maximum contribution to a reduction of GHG emissions on a global scale by spreading them across the world. The strategy includes. 
Strategies. 
Tokio Marine Holdings identifies and assesses climate change-related risks and opportunities as part of the­development process of the Overall Group Sustainability Strategy, which is developed by a dedicated sustainability promotion department.
The Board of Directors of Tokio Marine Holdings is the decision-making body for Tokio Marine Group’s climate change-related action policies. It approves the Overall Group Sustainability Strategy that encompasses climate-related measures and evaluates and determines a medium-term plan, plans for each fiscal year and other matters in accordance with the strategy. The Board also monitors the implementation status of these plans and matters based on the reports from a dedicated sustainability promotion department (Sustainability Division within the Corporate Planning. 
Department of Tokio Marine Holdings).
The Sustainability Board, comprising the CEO of Tokio Marine Holdings (Group CEO) and presidents of Group companies, is responsible for executing the climate-related strategies of the entire. 
Group. The Sustainability Board holds meetings periodically to evaluate and discuss the Overall. 
Group Sustainability Strategy that includes climate-related measures, a medium-term plan and plans for each fiscal year, and based on the reports from the Sustainability Division, monitors the implementation status of climate change-related measures throughout the Group.
The Group Chief Strategy and Synergy Officer (Group CSSO) is responsible for overseeing the. 
Corporate Planning Department, in which the Sustainability Division has been established, as well as for handling sustainability-related issues of the entire Group and making reports to the Group CEO.
The Group CSSO and the Sustainability Division meet periodically to discuss the ongoing projects.
The Group CSSO also monitors sustainability-related matters, including those concerning climate change, based on the reports from the Sustainability Division, while the Sustainability Division investigates and provides findings on topics for which the Group CSSO has requested clarification.
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainbility Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability. 
Initiatives >>
Governance. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


49 safety and security of our customers and society, and the intensification of natural disasters poses a direct impact on the insurance industry. This makes climate change a top-priority issue that we must address head-on not only for our insurance business, which is our principal business, but also in our role as an institutional investor and as a global company. To that end, Tokio Marine Group is committed to voluntarily implementing measures against climate change and helping to facilitate the transition to a decarbonized society. These actions will be based on our constructive dialogues and collaboration with international organizations, governments, the business community, academic institutions, civil society, and other groups and industries toward the achievement of the 2 degrees. 
Celsius target set in the Paris Agreement adopted at UNFCCC’s COP21 in December 2015.
Given these climate-related risks and opportunities surrounding Tokio Marine Group, we have specified climate change and natural disasters as issues having materiality (material sustainability issues) and have been incorporating measures against climate change into our processes of insurance underwriting and investment and financing. Other efforts include engaging in industry-academia collaborative research on climate change and natural disaster risks; developing and providing disaster risk-related products and services; raising environmental and disaster prevention awareness; reducing the environmental footprint in business activities; and achieving carbon neutral status.
• Insurance Underwriting. 
We fully recognize the importance of addressing the environmental and social impacts arising from our business execution and are committed to exercising underwriting practices that will enable us to contribute to the transition to a decarbonized society toward the achievement of the target of the. 
Paris Agreement. As a basic rule, Tokio Marine Group will not underwrite new insurance policies for coal-fired power generation plants. We may grant exceptions based on comprehensive evaluation of circumstances such as national energy policy, energy situations, business continuity and other considerations in the relevant country and by referencing the Organisation for Economic Co- operation and Development (OECD) Arrangement on Officially Supported Export Credits and other international guidelines. We will also support low-carbon efforts of our existing customer plants by helping them give consideration to the environment through the use of advanced, highly efficient power generation technologies and carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS), or carbon recycling, technologies, which can reduce or eliminate GHG emissions.
We also support sustainable growth through our business and the transition to a decarbonized society by promoting insurance underwriting for solar, wind and other renewable energy businesses.
innovation action plans consisting of 39 themes that capitalize on the country’s technological capabilities. A GHG reduction effort under a public-private partnership is already underway, and we hold heightened expectations for additional business opportunities.
In the process of promoting GHG emissions reduction and elimination, a shift of a major power source may increase needs for insurance for renewable energy businesses, including solar, geothermal and onshore and offshore wind power generation. In order to fully respond to such needs, we have been increasing the level of sophistication of our risk assessment in insurance underwriting and have already developed and been providing insurance products for such renewable energy businesses as an effort to increase the opportunity to generate more revenues.
There is also an expected rise in needs for stabilizing the lives of people in farming and other communities more vulnerable to climate change and weather disasters. As an example of our response, we have been selling Barish Bima Yojna / Mausam Bima Yojna in India, which is a weather insurance product that evaluates climate risks such as precipitation volume and temperature in all areas within the country and takes into account the impact of unseasonable climate on grain harvest yields in farming communities. While using CO2 emissions from business activities and the CO2 fixation and reduction effect from mangrove planting, the purchase of green power and other activities as our metrics and setting out the target of achieving carbon neutral status, we are strengthening our ability to respond to the transition risk and creating additional opportunities for efficient use of resources and cost reduction.
[Tokio Marine Group’s Climate Strategy]
At Tokio Marine Group, the fundamental purpose of our business is to protect our customers and local communities by providing safety and security in times of need. With this in mind, we will continue to serve society through our business and aim to be a “Good Company” that will be needed by customers and society 100 years from now. To date, we have endeavored to contribute to the development of society through the provision of safety and security by making the most of our knowledge and experience accumulated over the years in the insurance business. We will remain committed to solving various social issues and contributing to a safe, secure and sustainable future in order to create value beneficial for all our stakeholders and more broadly for society as a whole, while continuously raising the Group’s corporate value.
Climate change is a global challenge having great significance in human history, which threatens the. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


50. 
Besides providing specialized insurance packages for these operators, we are accelerating our efforts by carrying out strategic acquisitions of companies having strengths in this area to increase the. 
Group’s overall level of expertise and expand our business domain.
In June 2020, we acquired GCube Insurance Services, a specialist renewable energy insurance underwriter with a long track record of offering insurance products and services in the United States,
Europe and globally. This acquisition deepens our in-house expertise in renewable energy insurance and enables us to bring more products to the market in support of the transition to a decarbonized society.
Among power generation using renewable energy, offshore wind power generation that uses the force of offshore wind to generate power has drawn much attention globally for its better generating efficiency than onshore wind and solar power generation. It is also considered a promising option in. 
Japan as the country is surrounded by the sea and has long coastlines. In November 2018, the Diet passed the Act of Promoting Utilization of Sea Areas in Development of Power Generation Facilities. 
Using Maritime Renewable Energy Resources for promoting the offshore wind power industry, thereby setting up a system to license operators to use designated sea areas for a certain period of time.
However, in addition to substantial facility installation costs, offshore wind power generation faces many risks that vary from those encountered on land and thus requires adequate risk management.
Tokio Marine Group has already been underwriting insurance for offshore wind power generation projects around the world. At the same time, the Group has accumulated know-how for analysis and assessment of the risk of natural disasters specific to each region, including typhoons, earthquakes and tsunamis. Driving Japan’s efforts in this area in terms of insurance, Tokio Marine Holdings has been sharing its know-how accumulated in past projects at international conferences and seminars.
In addition, Tokio Marine & Nichido has developed an insurance package for offshore wind power generation, which offers comprehensive coverage for risks during facility construction and after the launch of operation, and intends to play an important role in further promoting the widespread use of offshore wind power generation.
Moreover, we strive to make a faster, smoother response to losses after a typhoon or other wide- area disasters by using satellite images and drones to quickly identify conditions of affected areas, strengthening our support structure in Japan, introducing electronic means to report loss internally and within each agent and taking other measures to enhance the competitiveness of our claims services.
•­Investment and Financing. 
As a basic rule in our investment and financing operations, and in order to contribute to the transition to a decarbonized society, we will not provide new financing for coal-fired power generation plants. We do, however, take into account individual circumstances as with the case of insurance underwriting. With Tokio Marine & Nichido and Tokio Marine Asset Management, two of our Group companies, being a signatory to the United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible. 
Investment (PRI), we will promote investment and financing based both on financial information and on environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria. We will also support the transition to a decarbonized society by integrating climate-related factors into our investment decision-making process.
Tokio Marine & Nichido requires its investee companies to enhance their disclosure of non-financial information, including information on ESG issues, as an effort to accurately capture the status of each company. In constructive dialogue, Tokio Marine & Nichido also places increased emphasis on ESG issues-related themes to encourage an improvement in corporate value of these investee companies as well as their sustainable growth. In its investment decision process, Tokio Marine & Nichido promotes an ESG integration approach, which comprehensively evaluates financial and ESG factors.
Specifically, the company will check ESG information, including human rights-related information.
Through these endeavors, Tokio Marine & Nichido will accumulate knowledge on ESG evaluation and work to refine its investment decision-making process. Meanwhile, Tokio Marine Asset Management has established and operates a Responsible Investment Committee comprising chief asset managers of each asset class to promote stewardship activities for and active engagement in ESG topics. The company has also been operating a renewable energy fund to invest in solar power plants since 2012 in order to support decarbonization efforts.
•­Sharing Natural Disaster and Disaster Prevention Knowledge for Building a Resilient Society. 
With possible increases in the frequency and scale of natural disasters in the future, it is also important to make disaster prevention and mitigation efforts to build a resilient society. Tokio Marine. 
Group has been providing various support for corporate risk assessment, formulation of business continuity plans (BCP) and establishment of business continuity management (BCM). This is done. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


51 by leveraging its knowledge and experience gained through disaster response in the past as well as high levels of expertise and risk consulting capabilities of Group companies and by collaborating with local governments and financial institutions. Providing a sense of security through its services before a disaster occurs has garnered high praise among customers and led to their growing support to Tokio Marine Group.
We have also been undertaking initiatives to increase disaster awareness of individuals. These include a BCP workshop and school lessons, the latter of which are one effective way of encouraging alleviation of and adaptation to climate change. We have held the Green Lessons, Disaster Prevention. 
Lessons and other school lessons approximately 1,500 times for a total of 100,000 children. These initiatives have also become an opportunity for Tokio Marine Group to gain broad public recognition.
• Collaboration with Stakeholders. 
Tokio Marine Group has been participating in the United Nations Global Compact, UNEP FI, UN- supported PRI and other initiatives to collaborate with various stakeholders and contribute to the creation of a safe, secure and sustainable future.
In responding to climate change and natural disasters, the Group is also striving to share the findings of its industry-academia collaborative research with society as well as to resolve disaster issues and mitigate disaster damage on a global basis. These efforts are carried out by joining international initiatives, such as the Private Sector Alliance for Disaster Resilient Societies (ARISE) led by the UN. 
Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), The Geneva Association’s Climate Change and Emerging. 
Environmental Topics (CC+EET) working group and ClimateWise.
Furthermore, with the aim of encouraging developing countries to financially prepare for increasingly severe weather disasters, we have been playing a leading role in creating an international framework for promoting disaster risk insurance through our engagement with the Insurance Development. 
Forum (IDF) and Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC).
In September 2015, the Cebu Action Plan (CAP) was adopted at APEC’s Finance Ministers’ Process (FMP). Within the CAP, disaster risk financing and insurance (DRFI) was declared as a priority issue and the importance of collaboration with the private sector was emphasized. As a representative of the private sector, Tokio Marine Group has been supporting the permeation of DRFI since 2015, providing its knowledge to the finance authorities in the APEC countries for increasing resilience in communities prone to weather disasters.
Making Society Resilient to Natural Disasters (Conducting Research on Climate Change and Natural. 
Disaster Risks and Linking the Findings to Product and Service Planning) ­>>
Preventing Global Warming by Promoting the Development of Clean Energy ­>>
Promoting Environmental Management (Concept for Reducing CO2 Emissions) ­>>
External Evaluations and Participation in Initiatives (Initiatives in Which Tokio Marine Group Is. 
Participating)­­>>
At Tokio Marine Holdings, a dedicated sustainability promotion department (Sustainability Division within the Company’s Corporate Planning Department) identifies risks and opportunities, including those related to climate change, and compiles the assessment results of these risks and opportunities for drafting an Overall Group Sustainability Strategy. The division also holds a monthly meeting with the CSSO, who is a Senior Managing Director, to discuss the assessment results.
Tokio Marine Group also identifies and assesses climate-related risks and opportunities by analyzing the feedback from stakeholder engagement. This stakeholder engagement initiative includes “Sustainability Dialogue,” in which we regularly invite outside experts to share the latest knowledge on sustainability with the Group’s management and to engage in dialogue (exchange views and engage in discussions) about Tokio Marine Group’s sustainability initiatives.
Additionally, Tokio Marine Group engages in energy conservation and resource conservation activities through environmental management. The head office of Tokio Marine & Nichido adopted an environmental management system based on ISO 14001 in fiscal 1999. At Group companies in. 
Japan and overseas, we have introduced our unique environmental management system through collaboration with Tokio Marine Holdings and Tokio Marine & Nichido. Each year, we identify and assess environmental issues, including climate-related risks, and define environmental targets.
In order to make adequate response to emerging risks through our enterprise risk management (ERM) process, Tokio Marine Group conducts analysis and evaluation using Intergovernmental. 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) scenarios and includes climate-related and other wide-ranging risks as important areas of our risk management. We are also working to identify our exposure to the transition risk and set up a required product development structure. At the same time, we have developed and been providing products and services tailored to various changes.
Risk Management. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


52. 
We use CO2 emissions from business activities (total of Scopes 1, 2 and 3) and the CO2 fixation and reduction effect from mangrove planting and other activities as our metrics. Our target is to achieve carbon neutral status on a Group basis annually, and we have attained this target for seven consecutive years from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2019. We will continue toward achieving this target in fiscal 2020 and onward. In October 2019, Tokio Marine Group joined the United Nations’
Communities of Ocean Action, which are supporting implementation of SDG 14, as a response to the expectations placed on the Group from the international community. In the same month, we revised the declaration made in 2007 for our involvement in the Mangrove Planting Project for 100 years and newly announced the Mangrove-based Value Co-creation 100-Year Declaration to seek creation of value together with members of society by providing solutions to social issues mainly utilizing mangrove trees.
Also, Tokio Marine & Nichido has set a medium-term target of a 40% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020 compared with the 2006 baseline and a long-term target of a 60% CO2 emissions reduction by 2050 compared with the 2006 baseline.
Metrics and Targets. 
Tokio Marine Group promotes ERM that seeks to increase corporate value by integrating risk-based decisions into all aspects of business and using capital adequacy and profitability relative to risk as metrics for making management decisions. Under the ERM framework, we conduct risk management while taking into consideration various factors, including the research results such as a change in typhoon risk under future climate conditions as well as the impact on insurance losses caused by a change in flood risk as a result of increased rainfall.
Moreover, at the ERM Committee comprising top management of Group companies in and outside. 
Japan, we identify material risks surrounding Tokio Marine Group and develop policies to respond to these risks. Material risks identified in fiscal 2019 included natural disasters, such as major wind and water disasters. In identifying material risks, we have adopted a system to monitor all risks, including emerging risks resulting from environmental and other changes, and to report them to the Group’s management. The system is designed to comprehensively assess these risks using both quantitative factors (such as economic loss and frequency of occurrence) and qualitative factors (including business continuity and reputation). We also perform stress tests using scenarios of low frequency but high consequence major natural disasters and other extreme events.
Meanwhile, Tokio Marine Group engages in research through collaboration with The University of Tokyo, Nagoya University, Kyoto University and other organizations to look into the impact of climate change on the insurance business over the short, medium and long terms and to identify and assess climate-related risks. As an example outcome, the Group has learned that under future climate conditions (about 100 years from now), an increase in the average typhoon intensity will increase typhoon risk. The Tokio Marine Research Institute and other Group companies have been assessing and calculating the impact on insurance losses under future climate conditions using IPCC. 
Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP) scenarios. Specifically, RCP4.5 and RCP8.5 are used to simulate changes in typhoon risk, while RCP8.5 is used to simulate changes in flood risk due to increased rainfall. The results of analyses of such scenarios are referenced in evaluating the potential impact on insurance underwriting from more severe natural disasters arising due to climate change.
The level of reinsurance premiums may fluctuate widely in line with increasing large-scale weather disasters due to climate change, possibly causing a sharp rise in reinsurance premiums. Tokio Marine. 
Group strives to optimize retention and reinsurance on a Group basis. As for natural disaster risks, we designate Tokio Marine & Nichido as the Group Retention Vehicle. While a certain portion of all natural disaster risks assumed by Group companies in and outside Japan is centralized to Tokio *Ceding refers to an insurance company passing on a part of its responsibility to pay insurance claims to another insurance company.
Marine & Nichido through intra-Group reinsurance, risks that exceed the retention level deemed appropriate on a Group basis are collectively ceded* to the external reinsurance market. By this collective ceding, we leverage economies of scale to reduce ceding costs.
Special Feature (1) Response to Global Climate Change and the Increase in Natural Disasters (P. 26–27), Integrated Annual Report 2020. 
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) (P. 76–79), Integrated Annual Report 2020. 
Addressing Material Social Issues and Their Risks and Opportunities (P. 22–25),
Integrated Annual Report 2020. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


53. 
Respect for Human Rights. 
In implementing our Corporate Philosophy, we have formulated the Tokio Marine Group Sustainability. 
Charter as principles of conduct required from the perspective of social responsibility and we strive to respect and promote the recognition of human rights for stakeholders.
In implementing our Corporate Philosophy, we have formulated the Tokio Marine Group Sustainability. 
Charter as principles of conduct required from the perspective of social responsibility and we strive to respect and promote the recognition of human rights for all people, including customers, shareholders/investors, insurance agents, business partners, employees and local communities/ society.
Tokio Marine Holdings endorses and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD. 
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the ILO Core Labour Standards, the UN Guiding Principles on. 
Business and Human Rights and ISO 26000, and has signed the United Nations Global Compact. Tokio. 
Marine Group fully understands international action principles and guidelines concerning human rights and participates in and contributes to initiatives concerning social responsibility, and by doing so, fulfills its role toward realizing a sustainable society.
We express the following in the Tokio Marine Group Code of Conduct, which summarizes important matters given the highest priority in our day-to-day business. Under the code, directors, officers and employees act in an honest and fair manner in conformity with laws and social norms and undertake fair business activities.
Basic Approach. 
Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter (excerpt)
Tokio Marine Group is committed to fulfilling its corporate social responsibility (CSR) by implementing its Corporate Philosophy to achieve sustainable growth together with the development of society in accordance with the following principles:
Respect for Human Rights and Dignity •­We respect and actively promote the recognition of human rights for all people.
•­We strive to ensure an energetic working environment that is both safe and healthy and to promote training and education of our employees.
•­We respect the right to privacy and strive to enforce this right through the management of personal information.
Tokio Marine Group Code of Conduct <Scope of application: Tokio Marine Group directors, officers and employees of Tokio. 
Marine Group companies (includes dispatched employees)> (excerpt)
In the event of a violation of this Code of Conduct, laws, regulations and internal rules, the companies of Tokio Marine Group shall take necessary measures in accordance with internal rules, which include investigating the facts, formulating countermeasures, submitting reports to supervisory authorities, taking disciplinary measures against the involved parties and formulating measures to prevent recurrences.
Respect for Human Rights and the Environment. 
We shall respect the human rights of our customers, directors, officers, employees and all other people. We shall also act in consideration of the global environment.
• Anti-discrimination Human rights are values widely recognized around the world, and any discrimination on the grounds of gender, sexual orientation, gender identificaton, age, profession, nationality, race, thought, creed, religion, social status or birth as well as any act constituting an infringement of human rights should never be tolerated. • Anti-harassment. 
Sexual harassment, abuse of authority or any other kind of harassment or intimidation should never be tolerated. • Private information and specific personal information, etc. In compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations as well as the Tokio Marine Group. 
Privacy Policy, we shall safeguard private information and specific personal information, etc., including customers’ information, and we shall not use such information except on a need basis to carry out our business operations in order to avoid any breach of privacy. • Protection of the global environment. 
Acknowledging that the protection of the global environment is an important responsibility, we shall comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations, and respect the harmonization with and the improvement of the global environment in all of our activities.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


54. 
In order for Tokio Marine Group to remain strong and caring to protect customers and society from all forms of emergencies, every employee must respect diverse values and work styles of others, find his or her work rewarding and work with enthusiasm with colleagues. It is also essential to gain trust from all people and society by always acting in a way to respect human rights. Tokio Marine Group carries out various initiatives in accordance with its Basic Policy on Human Rights in order to instill a culture of respecting human rights within the Group.
We have also established the Tokio Marine Global HR Policy as our universal philosophy and concept for human resources management to be shared among respective countries and regions worldwide.
Basic Policy on Human Rights 1. We fulfill social responsibilities as a “good corporate citizen” by positioning respect for human rights as one of the important standards of corporate activities and practicing it through daily business operations.
2. By nurturing employees who are conscious of and can practice respect for human rights, we promote the realization of “customer trust and satisfaction” on the basis of human rights.
3. By fostering a culture that respects human rights, we establish a “free and open corporate culture” in which all employees respect each other and fully demonstrate their abilities.
4. By promoting this initiative throughout the Group, we facilitate the growth of Tokio. 
Marine Group.
Tokio Marine Global HR Policy. 
Amid the growing importance of global business in recent years, Tokio Marine Group believes it essential to hire and nurture diverse personnel, regardless of nationality, age and gender, at each Group company in respective countries and regions worldwide and develop an environment in which employees can fully exert their capabilities.
In December 2010, we established the Tokio Marine Global HR Policy as our universal philosophy and concept for human resources management to be shared among respective countries and regions worldwide. We are working to share the thinking and values of. 
Tokio Marine Holdings formulates action policies concerning human rights, compliance and risk management, and accordingly, monitors business operations of Group companies on a regular basis to identify any issues related to respect for human rights and implement measures to counter any risk thereof.
•­Respect for Human Rights within the Group. 
At each Group company, all employees and other co-workers are working to build a vibrant corporate culture without discrimination or harassment.
At Tokio Marine & Nichido, we formulate the Basic Policies and Measures Related to Human Rights at the beginning of each fiscal year, and under the human rights awareness promotion structure, provide support to all branches for their relevant efforts made in relation with operations that involve human rights and inspect the status of their efforts at the end of the fiscal year. We go through the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle on a constant basis to survey the status, identify issues and take improvement measures.
Management Stance concerning Respect for Human Rights and Various Initiatives 1) “human resources being our largest assets,” 2) “respect for diversity” and 3) “provision of fair and equal opportunities” and will promote various personnel affairs measures, including employee training and support.
We believe that our people are the most important contributor to our company's success. We aim to attract and retain the best talent in every aspect of our business.
We value diversity and inclusion as we strive for global excellence, and we work hard to create a business environment where our people can achieve their full potential.
We have a transparent relationship with our people. For those who have both a passion and a challenging spirit, we encourage career development and personal growth.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


55 •­Process to Monitor the Promotion of Human Rights Awareness 1. Establish and thoroughly implement policies for promoting human rights awareness.
2. Develop an organizational structure to promote human rights awareness with the president as the responsible person.
3. Implement human rights awareness training for all directors, officers and employees at least once a year.
4. Formulate and thoroughly implement policies aimed at implementing fair recruitment selection practices and establish the Human Rights Awareness Committee for Fair Selection and Recruitment.
5. Promote normalization (increasing employment of persons with disabilities and improving their workplace environment in terms of both “software” and “hardware”).
6. Establish rules for the prevention of harassment in the workplace and set up an in-house consultation desk.
Human Rights Awareness Training. 
Every year, each member company of Tokio Marine Group holds human rights training in the workplace, in which all employees and other co-workers take part to build a vibrant corporate culture without discrimination or harassment. Training is based on themes that reflect social issues and employees learn about a wide range of areas, which include acquiring knowledge concerning a number of human rights issues in Japan of discrimination against people belonging to outcast communities, LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender) and harassment issues as well as about the. 
UK Modern Slavery Act 2015.
At Tokio Marine & Nichido, we have established a promotion structure mainly comprising the Human. 
Rights Awareness All-Branch Promotion Headquarters and the Human Rights Awareness Promotion. 
Committee members of each branch office. We work to foster a culture to respect human rights by continuing to achieve 100% participation every year for the human rights awareness training held in the workplace. Other efforts include holding rank-based training, such as executive seminars, publishing the latest information on human rights and related tools on our in-house intranet and making them always available for all employees. In addition to employees, we provide various training tools to agents to help them provide human rights awareness training.
Sustainability Performance Data (Human rights training participation rate, etc.)­>>
Fostering a Culture to Respect Human Rights by Soliciting and Awarding Human Rights-Related. 
Slogans. 
During Human Rights Week that takes place from December 4 to 10 every year, we solicit human rights-related slogans from all employees and their families within Tokio Marine Group. The aim is to facilitate an understanding of the importance of respecting human rights and raise human rights awareness in the workplace, at home and within local communities. We select excellent slogans and disseminate them through our in-house intranet, Group newsletters and posters to be put up in each workplace as an effort to instill and spread the awareness of respecting human rights.
Keeping the Human Rights Perspective in Daily Business Operations and Thoroughly Ensuring. 
Prevention of Discriminatory Practices. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido has in place a document inspection system to check for any expression (including illustrations) or wording undesirable from the perspective of human rights in its advertisements for customers as well as in its daily business operations. The system also performs a check to make sure the company does not obtain unnecessary personal information.
Human Rights Awareness Promotion Structure (Principal Initiatives) •Human rights awareness training (target: training to be attended by all employees), fair hiring selection practices and achieve normalization within the Group •Promotion of employment of persons with disabilities, prevention of, education on and appropriate response to various types of harassment, diversity and inclusion, and execution of daily business operations with an awareness of human rights. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


56 •­Supporting Initiatives for Reducing Human Rights Risk in Building Supply Chains. 
In solving human rights problems such as forced labor and child labor that are spreading globally, rather than relying solely on initiatives by government institutions, there are increasing demands that global companies take responsibility and respond to these problems throughout their entire supply chains. There are also various instances in which inadequate handling of these issues causes a major decline in the brand value of global companies and leads to product boycotts. Accordingly, in fiscal 2017 Tokio Marine & Nichido formed a business alliance with CRT Japan, a specified NPO, and has been providing support for initiatives for reducing human rights risk, such as forced labor and child labor, which could occur within global companies’ supply chains that span the world.
Tokio Marine & Nichido introduces CRT Japan to companies working to promote “responsible supply chains.” These companies receive advice from CRT Japan and establish systems that aim to reduce human rights risk throughout their entire value chain. Tokio Marine & Nichido designs and provides custom-made insurance for companies that receive advice from CRT Japan. This insurance covers the additional costs of establishing crisis measures when hidden human rights risks are discovered at second- and third-tier manufacturing subcontractors overseas despite having already taken adequate measures for human rights risk when building supply chains. As a result, companies can use this insurance to cover various expenses needed for responding quickly and accurately to prevent the occurrence of a major reputational risk when a human rights issue arises in the supply chain. In the future as well, Tokio Marine Group will continue to support the building of supply chains of global companies.
•­Hotline System (Whistle Blower System)
In order to solve human rights issues, such as sexual harassment and other various types of harassment, we have set up a Hotline System (Whistle Blower System), through which employees seek the advice of internal and external experts, and have been striving to realize a better workplace environment for employees.
•­Human Rights Due Diligence. 
Tokio Marine Group has established a system to ensure human rights due diligence based on the UN. 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
For Tokio Marine Group, human rights due diligence means an ongoing, preventive and voluntary process to avoid or reduce any negative impact of corporate activities on human rights and to become a “Good Company.”
According to the process, Tokio Marine Group conducted a human rights risk assessment in fiscal 2017 with the assistance of Verisk Maplecroft, the world’s leading global risk analytics and forecasting company, and the specified NPO Caux Round Table Japan (CRT Japan). The assessment covered every country in which we do business, and we identified potential human rights issues including forced labor, human trafficking, child labor and discrimination which we need to tackle in order to prevent risks from occurring.
In fiscal 2020, we will analyze and assess the possibility of occurrence of the identified risks and the impact of these risks on our stakeholders, and at the same time, will work to formulate necessary risk prevention measures.
•­Respect for Human Rights in the Value Chain. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido issues the Principle of Transactions for business partners (suppliers and subcontractors) from the perspective of social responsibility. The Principle of Transactions requests that business partners promote initiatives that encompass human rights as well as “compliance with laws, regulations and social norms,” “promoting fair and honest transactions,” “thorough information management” and “consideration for the environment.”
Sustainability in the Value Chain >>
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


57. 
Tokio Marine Group regards slave labor and human trafficking as social issues that must be solved and makes efforts to prevent slave labor and human trafficking in its own businesses and value chain (supply chain). At the same time, the Group is urging its various stakeholders to undertake initiatives toward solutions to these issues.
•­UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. 
Modern Slavery refers to enslavement and servitude, all forms of forced labor and human trafficking, etc.
The International Labour Organization (ILO) reported in a 2014 survey that there were approximately 21 million victims of forced labor worldwide (as of 2012) while annual illicit profits reached US$150 billion (estimate), which shows that even in present times slave labor and human trafficking are serious social problems.
Accordingly, in March 2015 the British government enacted the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 (“Slavery. 
Act”) to prevent forced labor and other present-day slave labor as well as human trafficking. The. 
Slavery Act went into effect in October 2015. Section 54 of the Slavery Act requires commercial organizations that undertake business in the United Kingdom (regardless of whether the company is headquartered in the United Kingdom) and that have annual sales of £36 million or more to publish a statement of steps taken each fiscal year to prevent slave labor and human trafficking in their own businesses and value chain (supply chain).
•­Tokio Marine & Nichido Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement for the Fiscal Year 2019. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido announces as follows the Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement for the fiscal year 2019 as a response to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. Tokio Marine & Nichido, together with its employees and business partners, will implement initiatives to prevent slave labor and human trafficking.
Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement. 
Response to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 •­Respect for Human Rights in Sustainable Investment and Financing. 
Giving consideration to environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues in investment and financing is becoming increasingly important from the perspective of improving long-term risk/ return. Tokio Marine & Nichido places great importance on the social role and responsibilities that the insurance industry is expected to fulfill, and in June 2012 signed as a drafting member the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) advocated by the United Nations Environment Programme Finance. 
Initiative (UNEP FI).
In April 2011, Tokio Marine Asset Management signed the United Nations-supported Principles for. 
Responsible Investment (PRI) initiative, accepting these principles as an asset management company.
As an insurance firm that has taken ESG issues into account in its insurance underwriting, investment analysis and other actions, Tokio Marine & Nichido signed the PRI in August 2012. Through PRI and PSI related activities, Tokio Marine Group is strengthening its initiatives for human rights in investment and financing.
Creating a Society Where People Can Live with Security through Sustainable Investments and. 
Financing >>
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


58. 
Sustainability in the Value Chain. 
Tokio Marine Group defines the value chain as shown in the following table. Primarily through Tokio. 
Marine & Nichido, the Group is executing environmental, social and governance (ESG) initiatives that are integrated into the value chain. In terms of respect for human rights, in particular, we strive to respect and promote the recognition of human rights within the value chain based on the Tokio. 
Marine Group Sustainability Charter.
As for sustainability in the value chain, we are engaging in three initiatives. These are supply chain management in which we fulfill our social responsibilities together with business partners; promotion of ESG initiatives among customers, projects and companies, to whom and which we provide products and services; and sustainable investments that give due consideration to ESG issues in investment activities.
Tokio Marine Group’s Value Chain. 
Initiative category Value chain Corresponding SC guideline* category. 
Value chain management. 
Manufacture of media used for sale of products and services, IT systems, consulting, audits and office supplies (Category 1) Purchased goods and services. 
Construction, maintenance and management of office buildings (Category 2) Capital goods. 
Petroleum refining and distribution, electric power providers (Category 3) Fuel and energy related activities not included in Scope 1 or 2. 
Delivery companies (Category 4) Transportation and delivery (upstream)
Waste disposal operators (Category 5) Waste generated in businesses. 
Trains, buses, taxis and accommodations (Category 6) Business travel. 
Trains, buses (Category 7) Employee commuting. 
Delivery companies (Category 9) Transportation and delivery (downstream)
Agencies, waste disposal operators (Category 14) Franchises. 
Promotion of ESG initiatives through the provision of products and services. 
Providing products and services to individuals, projects and companies (Category 11) Use of sold products. 
Sustainable investments Investment destination (Category 15) Investments *Basic Guidelines on Accounting for Greenhouse Gas Emissions Throughout the Supply Chain, Ministry of the Environment (MOE) and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


59. 
Tokio Marine Group has established the Tokio Marine Group Policies for Outsourcing Management in order to protect customers, enhance convenience and ensure the soundness and appropriateness of its operations in the event of outsourcing a portion or all of its operations.
Based on these policies, Tokio Marine & Nichido selects its contractors according to the Standard for. 
Selecting Outsourcing Contractors and the Information Security Management System Standard. At the same time, each year the company conducts investigations of the actual status of outsourcing contractors based on the Regulations Related to Outsourcing Contractor Management, which stipulate the management system for outsourcing contractors, and makes improvements when inadequacies are discovered.
In the future as well, Tokio Marine Group will promote initiatives integrated into the value chain together with its business partners.
Policies for Outsourcing Management. 
In the value chain, Tokio Marine Group carries out activities aimed at fulfilling its social responsibility and achieving sustainable development together with its business partners and at raising customer protection and convenience and assuring the soundness and appropriateness of its business.
■ Fulfilling Social Responsibilities Together with Business Partners. 
To implement ESG initiatives that are integrated into the value chain, Tokio Marine Holdings aims to have Tokio Marine Group and business partners fulfill their social responsibility and achieve sustainable development together. In working to realize this objective, Tokio Marine & Nichido formulated the Principle of Transactions, which outlines the items that should be followed in terms of conducting transactions, and is applying this across its Group. Tokio Marine & Nichido issues the Principle of Transactions to such Group business partners as suppliers and subcontractors and requests that these business partners promote initiatives for “compliance with laws, regulations and social norms,” “promoting fair and honest transactions,” “thorough information management” and “consideration for the environment.”
Through a questionnaire that is given once every two or three years, Tokio Marine & Nichido questions suppliers and subcontractors about the implementation of the contents of the Principle of. 
Transactions. The results of the questionnaire are compiled and are reflected in the next fiscal year’s action plan for the value chain.
Value Chain Management. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Group Principle of Transactions. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Group conducts transactions based on the following policies and aims to realize sustainable development with business partners (purchasers and consignees) and to fulfill its social responsibilities.
1. Compliance with laws, regulations and social norms. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Group complies with laws, regulations and social norms in every country and area when conducting transactions. We make every effort to reject relationships with anti-social forces and any undue claims from them.
2. Promoting fair and honest transactions. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Group selects business partners in a fair and honest manner based on comprehensive consideration of compliance with laws, regulations and social norms, business conditions, reliability, environmental activities, quality and prices of products, services and certainty of delivery period, among others.
3. Thorough information management. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Group thoroughly conducts appropriate management and protection of information acquired through business partners.
4. Consideration for the environment. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Group promotes the purchase of products with the least impact on the environment (purchase of green products) and works in cooperation with business partners to promote the creation of a recycling-oriented society.
5. Strengthening relationships of trust. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Group endeavors to build good partnerships based on trust through frequent communication with domestic and overseas business partners and mutually gaining a deeper understanding.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


60. 
Promoting ESG Initiatives through the Provision of Products and Services ■ Our Climate Strategy. 
We conduct research into the impact of physical risk (weather disasters) and transition risk (reinforcement of more stringent laws and regulations and technological advancements) of climate change on our provision of products and services.
Our Climate Strategy >>
Core Theme 1: Providing Safety and Security > Making Society Resilient to Natural Disasters >> ■ United Nations Environmental Programme Finance Initiative – Principles for Sustainable. 
Insurance (UNEP FI-PSI) http://www.unepfi.org/ http://www.unepfi.org/psi/
Tokio Marine Group strives to gain an understanding of ESG risks that have a significant impact on society while working with customers and business partners to respond to these risks.
[Responding to ESG Risks during Development of Insurance Products and Services] ■ ESG Integration into Insurance Underwriting Risk Management. 
In July 2017, Tokio Marine & Nichido revised its Insurance Product Development and Revision. 
Procedure so as to include CSV (resolving social issues through business) as one of the goals of product development and revision, and also provides environmental and social risks as points to check for reducing risks when developing and/or revising an insurance product.
Additionally, in April 2018, Tokio Marine & Nichido revised its Insurance Underwriting Risk. 
Management Manual so as to clearly include environmental and social factors as the checkpoints for insurance product development and revision.
Study and Research on Promotion of ESG Initiatives through the Provision of Products and Services ■ Joint Research into ESG Risks. 
One mission of Tokio Marine Group is to provide, in response to natural disaster risk, products and services leading to the safety and security of customers and local communities. To achieve this mission, we are applying our knowledge, which we have accumulated through research on natural disaster risk and participation in international initiatives, to the development of insurance products and services and are promoting activities to disseminate our know-how on disaster prevention and mitigation widely throughout society.
Core Theme 1: Providing Safety and Security > Making Society Resilient to Natural Disasters >> [Responding to ESG Risks through Insurance Products and Services] ■ Consulting Related to ESG and Sustainability. 
The understanding that non-financial value in addition to financial value is essential in order to increase corporate value over the medium to long term has taken hold in Japan in recent years.
Amid growing interest in ESG factors, there are heightened expectations for corporate management based on an awareness of ESG in addition to financial aspects. Tokio Marine & Nichido Risk. 
Consulting provides a variety of consulting services relating to ESG and environmental management by leveraging its experience in evaluating client companies for inclusion in Socially Responsible. 
Investment (SRI) funds.
Tokio Marine & Nichido Risk Consulting’s “ESG and Sustainability” (in Japanese) ■ Preventing Global Warming by Promoting the Development of Clean Energy. 
In order to prevent damage due to climate change from spreading, Tokio Marine Group is examining the possibility of installing and operating renewable energy facilities in Group companies while also providing products and services such as liability insurance for environmental pollution and consulting on ESG criteria and sustainability.
Core Theme 2: Protecting the Earth > Preventing Global Warming by Promoting the Development of Clean Energy >> ■ Sale of Environmental Impairment Liability Coverage. 
In response to the growing need for ensuring compliance with environmental regulations and mitigating lost profit caused by the emission of contaminants, U.S.-based Philadelphia Insurance Companies (PHLY) offers environmental insurance products with environmental impairment liability coverage against various risks, including impairment liability for contamination of the environment, for manufacturers, processing companies, construction companies, environment-related operators, environmental. 
Environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors facing society are increasingly affecting traditional risks. Tokio Marine Group believes that one of its crucial responsibilities is to provide high-quality and reliable products and services while working with customers and business partners to understand and respond to ESG risks that have a significant impact on society. To fulfill this responsibility, Tokio Marine Group will promote ESG initiatives through the provision of products and services across its sphere of influence based on the United Nations Environmental Programme. 
Finance Initiative – Principles for Sustainable Insurance (UNEP FI-PSI).
Efforts to Promote ESG Initiatives through the Provision of Products and Services. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


61 consultants, pharmaceutical firms, electricians, plumbers, hotel operators and real estate agencies.
These insurance products protect policyholders from impairment liability for damage to third parties and remediation expenses caused by environmental contamination, thereby contributing to the protection of the natural environment and the health of local residents while encouraging the promotion of regional industries.
Philadelphia "Environmental Products"
In December 2010, Tokio Marine & Nichido acquired the first auto insurance Eco Mark*1 certification for financial products from the Japan Environment Association (JEA) for its efforts to promote various initiatives in the environment-related field. These included promotion of the Green Gift Project, dissemination of information on eco-safe driving and accident reduction via the company website, increased use of recycled parts in auto repairs and premium discount services for hybrid, electric and compressed natural gas vehicles.
In 2011, Tokio Marine & Nichido won the Silver Prize in the Eco Mark Award 2011*2 sponsored by JEA, becoming the first company in the financial industry to receive an Eco Mark award. In granting the award, JEA highly recognized the company’s efforts to promote the widespread use and increase the visibility of Eco Mark-certified auto insurance products (creation of Eco Mark awareness posters and extensive use of the Eco Mark label on auto insurance leaflets and renewal notices) and to offer eco- friendly auto insurance that allows policyholders to participate in activities to reduce environmental impact through the Green Gift Project. Becoming carbon neutral in its domestic business activities in fiscal 2009 and 2010 was another point that was recognized by JEA.
Tokio Marine & Nichido and Nisshin Fire & Marine Insurance (“Nisshin Fire”) have been undertaking an initiative to promote environment-conscious auto repairs following accidents with the cooperation of customers. This initiative, contingent upon the approval of customers, encourages the repair, not replacement, of parts damaged in an accident or the use of recycled or rebuilt parts if the damage is beyond repair to reduce industrial waste and utilize resources more effectively.
*1 The Eco Mark environmental label is granted to products that are certified as having less impact on the environment throughout their lifecycles and being effective in preserving the environment. *2 The first award scheme established in 2010 in relation to the Eco Mark. Awards are presented to companies and organizations proactively engaged in activities to achieve the objective of the Eco Mark project: “Creation of a sustainable society through the wise choice of environment-friendly products by consumers and environment improvement efforts by companies.”
Following “The Declaration of the Promotion of the Use of Recycled Parts,” a joint statement made by The General. 
Insurance Association of Japan and its member insurance companies in October 2011, we have decided to step up this initiative by generally requiring the use of recycled parts when repairing company-owned vehicles and encouraging their use in personal vehicles of employees.
For the same reason, Nisshin Fire provides an environment-conscious auto insurance, Asante, which provides a 10% discount on insurance premiums if a car repair is done using recycled parts at one of the automobile excellent repair shops specified by the company.
Nisshin Fire Asante (in Japanese) ■ In Support of Customers’ Health and Productivity Management. 
Tokio Marine Group supports the promotion of corporate health and productivity through a range of services in order to deliver the know-how we have gained from our own initiatives within the Group to customers. As an example, to help with the formulation of highly effective health promotion measures and the implementation of a PDCA cycle, we provide support for the quantitative analysis of health-related issues by analyzing medical exam and prescription data held by companies and health insurance associations; establishment of various corporate systems essential for promoting health and productivity management; and implementation of health promotion measures effective to contend with a variety of health-related issues.
Core Theme 3: Supporting People > Building a Society Based on Health and Longevity to Ensure. 
Peace of Mind >> ■ Support for Mental Health Management. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Medical Service offers the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to support the mental health management of companies. The company’s EAP provides a comprehensive menu of services by a team of experts including psychiatrists, clinical psychotherapists and personnel and labor consultants. These services include individual follow-up for employees based on the results of employee stress checks; providing supportive care during a leave of absence or when returning to work; preventing recurrence; analyzing stress level tendencies in organizations; and consulting on how to create a mental health framework.
Core Theme 3: Supporting People > Building a Society Based on Health and Longevity to Ensure. 
Peace of Mind >>
First Auto Insurance Eco Mark Certification Acquired for Financial Products. 
Accident-Related Auto Repairs That Are Friendly to the Environment. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


62 ■United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiatives – Principles for Sustainable. 
Insurance (UNEP FI-PSI) http://www.unepfi.org/ http://www.unepfi.org/psi/ ■UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) http://www.unpri.org/ ■Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century https://www.pfa21.jp/ ■Japan Sustainable Investment Forum http://www.jsif.jp.net/
With Tokio Marine & Nichido and Tokio Marine Asset Management taking the lead, Tokio Marine. 
Group has formulated sustainable investment policies and aims for the sustainable growth of investee companies and thus promotes such initiatives as holding constructive “purposeful dialogue” with investee companies and publicly announcing the exercise of voting rights and the results of the exercise of voting rights.
Study and Research on Sustainable Investments and Financing. 
Creating a Safe, Secure and Sustainable Future through Sustainable Investments. 
Creating a Society Where People Can Live with Security through Sustainable Investments and Financing. 
Tokio Marine Group believes that one of its basic roles is to give consideration to the environment, including climate change, as well as to society and governance in its investment and financing operations and contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. The sustainable growth of society is essential in securing long-term, stable income through investments. In an effort to solve various environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues, we join study and research activities such as the. 
UNEP FI Principles for Sustainable Insurance (UNEP FI-PSI), UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century and the Japan Sustainable Investment Forum and leverage the findings of these activities to execute sustainable investments and financing. Tokio. 
Marine Group is making group-wide efforts to promote sustainable investments and financing, and Tokio Marine & Nichido and Tokio Marine Asset Management, two companies accounting for a significant portion of the Group’s entire investment activities, have become a signatory to the UN- supported PRI.
■ Asset Management Policies. 
The asset management policies of Tokio Marine & Nichido and Tokio Marine Asset Management are as follows.
<Asset Management Policy from the Tokio Marine & Nichido Disclosure Report 2020 (excerpt)>
Besides focusing on safety, profitability and liquidity in preparation for the payment of insurance claims, Tokio Marine & Nichido also undertakes asset management that contributes to society and public welfare. For this reason, with a main focus on Asset Liability Management (ALM), Tokio Marine & Nichido aims at securing long-term, stable income and carrying out efficient liquidity management under appropriate risk control giving due consideration to the characteristics of insurance products.
https://www.tokiomarine-nichido.co.jp/company/pdf/TMNF_2020_d.pdf (in Japabese) (PDF/5.1MB)
Additionally, in order to fulfill its corporate social responsibility, Tokio Marine & Nichido posts its ESG. 
Investment and Financing Policy, which also gives appropriate consideration to ESG and other non- financial elements, at the following link.
<ESG Investment and Financing Policy from Tokio Marine & Nichido’s Corporate Website (excerpt)>
Tokio Marine & Nichido envisions to be a “Good Company” that supports customers and local communities in times of need even 100 years from now. To achieve this goal, we will integrate consideration for society and public welfare into our asset management process based on our social responsibility as a non-life insurance company and contribute to the creation of a safe, secure and sustainable future. Specifically, as a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) supported by the United Nations, we will promote environmental, social and governance (ESG) investments and financing, which take into account both financial information and ESG elements, and seek to increase investment performance over the medium to long term and to resolve social issues.
https://www.tokiomarine-nichido.co.jp/company/about/policy/stewardship.html (in Japanese) <Tokio Marine Asset Management>
One of Tokio Marine Asset Management’s management principles is to contribute to the development of an enriched and comfortable social life and economic growth of society. Tokio Marine Asset. 
Management, in conformance with its fiduciary responsibility, executes responsible investments that not only focus on financial elements of investee companies but also appropriately consider non- financial elements such as environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. At the same time, Tokio. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


63. 
Marine Asset Management actively engages investee companies to promote their growth over the medium to long term with the aim of increasing medium- to long-term returns for customers. Tokio. 
Marine Asset Management adopts an ESG integration approach, which integratedly ascertains and systematically evaluates financial and non-financial elements, into its investment decision process.
This process is commonly applied to all asset classes based on the recognition that ESG integration enables even higher-precision company analysis and investment decisions.
Tokio Marine Asset Management regards ESG as a fundamental evaluation category to ensure medium- to long-term returns for customers and has positioned governance as the key focal point in company evaluation while also appropriately considering environmental, social and other non- financial elements.
https://www.tokiomarineam.com/sustainability/responsible investment ■ Asset Management Structure. 
The asset management structures of Tokio Marine & Nichido and Tokio Marine Asset Management are as follows.
<Tokio Marine & Nichido>
At Tokio Marine & Nichido, ESG investment planning is carried out in the Financial Planning. 
Department and sustainable investment and financing initiatives are implemented in collaboration with the Corporate Asset Management Department/Investment Management Department, which execute transactions. Moreover, by receiving the evaluation of an external organization through PRI’s annual assessment, Tokio Marine & Nichido is identifying any issues in its efforts and process related to ESG investments and financing for continuous improvement.
<Tokio Marine Asset Management>
Tokio Marine Asset Management has established the Responsible Investment Committee, led by the head of the Investment Business Division and comprising asset managers of each asset class and other relevant parties, to formulate responsible investment policies and establish required processes. The committee also creates basic policies and guidelines for the exercise of voting rights.
Tokio Marine Asset Management will work to further deepen its understanding of responsible investment, which is a responsibility of an institutional investor, and continue to fulfill this and other responsibilities as an institutional investor by making investments in a manner that comprehensively takes into consideration ESG and other issues.
■ Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors (Japan’s Stewardship Code)
The Council of Experts established within the Financial Services Agency announced in February 2014 the “Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors (Japan’s Stewardship Code) – To promote sustainable growth of companies through investment and dialogue.” The Code was revised in May 2017 and thereafter in March 2020.
Under the Code, “Stewardship Responsibility” means bearing responsibility for expanding medium- and long-term investment returns for “customers and beneficiaries” (including end beneficiaries) through constructive “purposeful dialogue” (engagement) by institutional investors based on a deep understanding of investee companies and their business environments as well as consideration for sustainability (medium- to long-term sustainability, including ESG factors) consistent with investment management strategies to raise the corporate value of these companies and promote their sustainable growth.
In May 2014, Tokio Marine & Nichido agreed with the intent of the Principles for Responsible. 
Institutional Investors (Japan’s Stewardship Code) and also announced it would adopt the Code.
Since then, the company has been reviewing its Policy on Japan’s Stewardship Code and other related policy in a timely manner based on the revisions made to the Code.
Tokio Marine & Nichido: Policy on Japan’s Stewardship Code and Other Related Policy (in Japanese)
In May 2014, Tokio Marine Asset Management (TMAM) announced its adoption of the Principles for. 
Responsible Institutional Investors (Japan’s Stewardship Code). Since then, the company has been reviewing its TMAM Stewardship Statement in a timely manner based on revisions to the Code.
Tokio Marine Asset Management: Stewardship Statement (in Japanese)
Based on the intent of the Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors (Japan’s Stewardship. 
Code), Tokio Marine & Nichido and Tokio Marine Asset Management have formulated clear policies on publicly announcing the exercise of voting rights and the results of the exercise of voting rights and are disclosing details of their stewardship activities that include the results of the exercise of voting rights.
Exercise of Voting Rights and Disclosure of the Results of Exercise of Voting Rights. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


64. 
Value Creation through Sustainable Investments. 
Tokio Marine Group contributes to the creation of a safe, secure and sustainable future together with its stakeholders by developing and providing ESG investment products.
■ Provision of the Global SDGs Equity Fund. 
In December 2007, Tokio Marine Asset Management launched the Global SDGs Equity Fund, an environmental investment trust fund that invests in Japanese and other companies involved in activities under the following themes. These themes are related to environmental or social issues arising from the growing economies and increasing population in the world, which need to be sustained or improved.
• Environmental (e.g., global warming and clean energy) • Water and foodstuffs (e.g., stable supply of water and food and enhanced productivity) • Medical services and healthcare (e.g., medical techniques and promotion of better health)
For institutional investors, the company launched the Tokio Marine Japanese Equity ESGR Fund in. 
January 2006. Leveraging the comprehensive risk management know-how of Tokio Marine Group, this fund aims to obtain long-term and stable added value based on the Group’s unique environmental, social, governance and risk management (ESGR) analysis and evaluation.
Tokio Marine Asset Management intends to fulfill its social responsibilities as an institutional investor and improve investment performance over the long term while giving due consideration to ESG issues in its asset management operations.
■ Providing a Renewable Energy Fund. 
Since 2012, Tokio Marine Asset Management has been operating the TM Nippon Solar Energy Fund for institutional investors, including corporate pension funds, to invest in solar power plants as an investment product targeting Japan’s national infrastructure. The company has also been operating the TM Nippon Renewable Energy Fund that invests in various types of renewable energy, including wind power, biomass, hydropower and geothermal power in addition to solar power, since 2017.
These funds are investment products that diversify investments among Japan’s renewable energy generation businesses and provide investment income to investors from sales of electric power.
Japan initiated a feed-in tariff (FIT) system for reusable energy sources in July 2012 with a view to increasing the use of solar, wind and other renewable energy. The system requires all users of electricity, including businesses and households, to pay a surcharge on electricity generated from renewable sources. The TM Nippon Solar Energy Fund, which is based on this FIT system, is designed to return investment income to citizens of Japan through corporate pension funds, the major investor of the fund.
Tokio Marine Asset Management believes that this fund will contribute to the diversification of energy sources. By offering investment opportunities of social significance through this fund, the company strives to fulfill its social roles and responsibilities as an asset management company.
■ Providing an Engagement-Focused Fund to Invest in Japanese Companies. 
With the launch of the Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors (Japan’s Stewardship Code) in February 2014, the importance of engagement between institutional investors and companies is further increasing its significance from a viewpoint of responsible investment.
Taking an early start, Tokio Marine Asset Management (TMAM), jointly with GO Investment Partners (GO)*, launched the TMAM-GO Japan Engagement Fund in March 2012. This engagement-focused fund primarily invests in small- to medium-sized Japanese companies having strong core businesses.
By promoting engagement with investee companies based on a full understanding of the corporate culture in Japan, the company intends to deepen mutual understanding between investors and. 
Japanese companies and provide increased corporate value over the long term.
Tokio Marine Asset Management ■ Establishing Japan’s First Fund to Invest in Microfinance-Related Assets. 
We provide microfinance services mainly to low-income earners in emerging and developing countries.
Reducing Poverty (Reducing World Poverty) >> * GO Investment Partners (GO) An independent asset management partnership based in London, with its founder being the pioneer in the field of responsible stock ownership. The organization is characterized by its investment strategy that focuses on enhancement of long-term corporate value through amicable engagement with investee companies listed on European stock markets.
<Tokio Marine & Nichido>
Overview of stewardship activities (in Japanese) (PDF/188KB) <Tokio Marine Asset Management>
Stewardship activities and results of self-assessment (July 31, 2020) (in Japanese) (PDF/891KB)
Disclosure of the results of the exercise of voting rights (Japanese equities) (in Japanese) (PDF/1.6MB)
Disclosure of the results of the exercise of voting rights (Japanese equities) during January to. 
March 2020 (in Japanese)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


65. 
We continued to engage in industry-academia collaborative research in order to respond to climate change and natural disaster risk.
We added the new Accident Conditions Reproduction System to Drive Agent Personal, a rider to our automobile insurance, which uses our original driving recorder to protect customers.
We launched “Tokio Cyber Port,” an online information lounge that compiles the latest information on cyber security measures.
We accelerated damage assessment services by using AI to analyze images taken by drones.
Core Theme 1: Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability & ESG Highlights undertaking local community and social contribution activities leading to safety and security.
Making Society Resilient to Natural Disasters. 
One mission of Tokio Marine Group is to provide, in response to natural disaster risk, products and services leading to the safety and security of customers and local communities. To achieve this mission, we are applying our knowledge, which we have accumulated through research on natural disaster risk and participation in international initiatives, to the development of insurance products and services and are promoting activities to disseminate our know-how on disaster prevention and mitigation widely throughout society. Even after a disaster, we focus on making swift claims payments and providing services for the early recovery of business operations.
Increasing Safety in Daily Lives by Leveraging Traffic Technology Innovation. 
Another mission of Tokio Marine Group is to deliver traffic safety and security through its non-life insurance products and services. Tokio Marine Group provides insurance products and services that quickly capture the latest innovation in traffic technology, and will contribute to increasing society’s preparedness against traffic risk and prevention of traffic accidents.
Building a Secure Society by Responding to Varying Lifestyles and Changes in Society. 
Tokio Marine Group provides services responding to the expanding inbound market for business operators in Japan as well as services to counter the growing corporate governance and cyber risks resulting from business globalization and technology innovation. We also distribute information on natural disasters via the Internet, smartphones and other means and are devising ways to smoothly receive loss reports upon an accident. Through these and other efforts, we are working to provide comprehensive coverage matched to the needs of our day-to-day life.
The world is now facing various social issues, inflicted by frequent large-scale natural disasters, demographic shifts, income disparities and poverty. In Japan as well, issues are becoming prevalent also in relation with technological innovation as well as community resilience (disaster prevention and mitigation) and the country’s declining birth rate and aging population. These issues may induce drastic changes in risks surrounding the insurance business. To protect people, including our customers, from these varying risks and also capture business opportunities while responding to these risks, Tokio Marine Group has selected “Providing Safety and Security” as one of our three core themes. We are making efforts toward a safe, secure and sustainable future throughout our entire business activities from conducting research on natural disaster risk to providing products and services that are beneficial for safety and security and. 
Sustainability Materiality(Material Issues) • Products and services beneficial for safety and security • Climate change and natural disasters • Technological innovation • Low birth rates and aging societies, and population demographics • Local community and social contribution activities •Promoting ESG in the provision of products and services. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


66. 
Risks and Opportunities Associated with Climate Change. 
Considerable concern exists over the possibility of increased typhoons, heavy rains, droughts and other natural disasters caused by climate change. The insurance business has a close relationship with weather disasters and therefore risks such as the following are possible.
• Growth in the number of insured contingencies and insurance claims payment amounts due to an increase in weather disaster risk • A sharp rise in reinsurance premiums due to increases in large-scale weather disasters • Worsening fund position due to an increase in insurance claims payment amounts resulting from weather disasters • Risk of discontinuation of business due to the impact of weather disasters on buildings, IT facilities and other facilities • Risk of impacts from weather disasters in countries and regions throughout the world along with growth in the overseas insurance business. 
In 2007, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), which collects scientific research into climate change, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for its contributions to raising recognition of climate change. Established in 1988, the IPCC presents the current state, causes, impact, adaptation measures and mitigation measures concerning climate change through means such as assessment reports. In its “Special Report on Managing the Risks of Extreme Events and Disasters to Advance Climate Change. 
Adaptation” issued in 2012, the IPCC supplemented previous research with an appeal to the importance of adaptation and disaster risk management with respect to climate change.
The IPCC Fifth Assessment Report announced from 2013 to 2014 provided, in addition to the topics discussed in past reports, a more detailed quantitative assessment of impacts on food and incomes and made an appeal to government decision-makers. The Working Group II Report states that besides river overflows and coastal region seawater immersion that causes flooding, the increases in the severity and frequency of extreme weather disasters are conspicuous risk factors at the global level. In view of this, the report cited insurance systems as one of the economic sectors affected by these risk factors.
Although weather phenomena are natural occurrences that are beyond our control, it is possible to prepare ourselves and adopt measures against the increasing risks of weather disasters. Tokio Marine. 
Group regards these evolving risks as opportunities and aims to promote risk-based management to maintain a sound financial base and to provide protection to customers and society by offering appropriate insurance products and risk management services. We are promoting the following specific measures as activities for creating opportunities.
• Promoting research on weather disaster risk through industry-academia collaboration with universities, including The University of Tokyo, Nagoya University and Kyoto University • Establishing investment funds for facilities for renewable energy such as solar power and providing related insurance and consulting services • Providing insurance products and risk management services to cover weather disaster risk in developed and developing countries • Providing insurance so that persons engaged in agriculture can make preparations against extreme weather in developing countries and regions • Activities for making policy recommendations to encourage disclosures that will help investment decisions through participation in an initiative led by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial. 
Disclosures (TCFD) of the Financial Stability Board (FSB) • Creating a sustainable society by utilizing disaster risk financing and an insurance scheme • Enlightenment and educational activities related to weather disaster risk. 
Examples of CSR approach (Providing Safety and Security)
Eliminating Poverty in Society. 
Based on our know-how accumulated in the insurance business, Tokio Marine Group has developed and initiated sales of weather insurance and microinsurance in India, thereby providing low-income earners with greater access to insurance. Through these initiatives, we hope to contribute to the resolution of poverty issues in the world.
Value Creation Providing safety and security to customers, local communities and society worldwide through the insurance business. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


67. 
Making Society Resilient to Natural Disasters. 
Resolving disaster issues and mitigating disaster damage are two major concerns in the international community and challenges we should tackle.
We are applying our knowledge in the areas of natural disasters as well as disaster prevention and mitigation, which we have accumulated through research on natural disaster risk and participation in international initiatives, to the development and provision of products and services leading to the safety and security of customers and local communities well into the future. At the same time, we are promoting activities to disseminate our knowledge on disasters and disaster prevention and mitigation widely throughout society through such efforts as raising disaster prevention awareness of children as well as companies before a disaster strikes. Even after a disaster, we focus on making appropriate and swift claims payments and providing services for the early recovery of business operations of companies affected by the disaster. Tokio Marine Group seeks to contribute to building a safe and secure society that is strongly resilient to natural disasters by providing total responses before and after disasters through its diverse products and services and various initiatives, including activities to raise disaster prevention awareness, provide relief funds and engage employee volunteers.
Tokio Marine & Nichido received certification as an organization contributing to the building of national resilience (“Resilience Certification”) in the business continuity and social contribution categories in the first evaluation conducted in fiscal 2020.
2. Conducting Research on Climate Change and Natural Disaster Risks and Linking the Findings to Product and Service Planning >>
With a view toward providing products and services leading to the safety and security of customers and local communities well into the future, Tokio Marine Group has been promoting research on risks concerning climate change and natural disasters through industry-academia collaboration and disseminating information on research outcomes. The Group also collaborates with insurance companies worldwide to engage in multi-stakeholder dialogue aimed at reducing and mitigating the risks placed on economic and social life.
4. Social Contribution Activities: Education to Raise Awareness for Natural Disaster Risk,
Disaster Prevention and BCP, and Recovery Support for Disaster-Affected Areas >>
Based on the lessons learned from earthquakes and other disasters in the past, and as a means to help people prepare for future disasters and raise disaster prevention awareness among children as well as companies, Tokio Marine Group disseminates disaster prevention information through the media and holds disaster prevention seminars and lessons for children and adults jointly with research and other organizations who are our partners in industry-academia collaboration.
The Group also engages in recovery support for affected areas, including employee volunteer activities.
1. Various Initiatives to Support Customers in Their Times of Need >>
To deliver a sense of security at the earliest opportunity after an earthquake or any other disaster, Tokio Marine Group takes all possible measures for smoothly receiving insurance claims reports. In addition, the Group delivers safety and security to all people and society by providing disaster-related products and services including support services for early recovery.
3. Providing Products and Services That Support Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity >>
Based on the lessons learned from earthquakes and other disasters in the past, and as a means to help people prepare for future disasters, Tokio Marine Group promotes the development and provision of products and services, including consulting services, for ensuring business continuity against disasters and responding to new risks.
[Material Issue: Local Community and Social Contribution Activities and Awareness-Raising and Educational Activities] ❖ Actions for Making Society Resilient to Natural Disasters [Material Issue: Products and Services Beneficial for Safety and Security]
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


68 ■ To Deliver Security at the Earliest Possible Opportunity. 
Remaining strong and caring to support customers and society in emergencies – This is an aspiration shared throughout all activities of Tokio Marine Group.
A number of natural disasters, including typhoons and water disasters, occurred in Japan in fiscal 2019, inflicting considerable damage across the country. Immediately following each disaster,
Tokio Marine & Nichido set up a head office disaster management task force and a local response headquarters, and to ensure the earliest possible claims payments, quickly established a claims service structure to handle many more claims than ordinary times by setting up a backup office that integrates initial response and various business administrative functions. Tokio Marine & Nichido made company-wide efforts, with employees, appraisers and loss adjusters dispatched to the disaster areas visiting customers affected by the disaster to check the status of damaged houses and buildings.
1. Various Initiatives to Support Customers in Their Times of Need. 
Head office disaster management task force Satellite office ❖ Relation between Written Content and SDGs. 
Claims settlement service structure following a major disaster. 
Relevant goal Relevant target Contribution to the target achievement 1.5 Build the resilience of the poor and those in vulnerable situations and reduce their exposure and vulnerability to climate-related extreme events • Research on climate change and natural disaster risks through industry-academia collaboration 9.a Facilitate sustainable and resilient infrastructure development in developing countries through enhanced financial, technological and technical support to small island developing States 9.5 Enhance scientific research, upgrade the technological capabilities of industrial sectors in all countries • Providing recommendations to society via the World Disaster Risk Reduction (Bosai) Forum and the National Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction 11.5 Significantly reduce the number of deaths and the number of people affected by disasters, including water-related disasters • Research on climate change and natural disaster risks through industry-academia collaboration • Claims services following a major disaster • Early Disaster Recovery Support Service through a tie-up with BELFOR • Offering a program to assist in the formulation of business continuity plans (BCP) for small and medium-sized companies 11.b Implementing integrated policies and plans towards inclusion, resource efficiency, mitigation and adaptation to climate change in line with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 • Disaster Prevention Lessons to convey knowledge on disaster prevention to children and help them prepare for a next disaster • Concluding an agreement for the establishment of an area information network in a disaster with the 38 member FM radio stations of JFN 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters • Claims services following a major disaster • Consulting for the establishment of business continuity management (BCM) • Natural disaster consulting • Preparing for typhoons and torrential downpours by using “personalized” videos 13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning • Disaster Prevention Lessons to convey knowledge on disaster prevention to children and help them prepare for a next disaster • Natural disaster risk seminar 17.16 Enhance the global partnership for sustainable development • Participating in The Geneva Association’s Climate Change and Emerging Risks Working Group • Participating in the U.K.-based ClimateWise Climate Change Initiative. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


69 ■Initiative to Utilize Drones and AI in Making Insurance Claims Payments –Using AI to Analyze Images Taken by Drones to Accelerate Damage Investigation and Repair Costs Calculation–­
Larger and more frequent natural disasters in recent years have caused considerable damage to both housing and properties of individual customers as well as plants and warehouses owned or operated by corporate customers. Following such a disaster, loss adjusters or appraisers of an insurance company perform on-site investigations to assess damage. The insurance company then calculates and closely examines the amount of claims based on their investigation results, photos of damaged sites, loss estimates and other materials before making claims payments. Checking damage on the roof of a plant or warehouse, in particular, poses risk to loss adjusters or appraisers, sometimes hindering detailed damage investigation. A large facility also requires a certain period of time to finish investigating all damaged areas.
For these reasons, Tokio Marine & Nichido has been examining ways to utilize technology such as drones in performing accurate and swift damage investigation and repair costs calculation before making claims payments to customers. In June 2019, Tokio Marine & Nichido launched an initiative to accelerate the process from damage investigation to repair costs calculation by using machine learning and having AI analyze multiple images taken by drones. Specifically, aerial images of a plant or warehouse taken by drones are patched together to create imagery data that clearly shows affected areas and their damage levels. AI analyzes the resulting data to automatically identify damage, and the company quickly calculates loss amount by working with repair companies, loss appraisers and other parties.
The accuracy can be improved by letting AI learn from a vast quantity of imagery data, collected with customers’ consent, and the results of image diagnoses by loss appraisers. This AI-driven automatic process allows Tokio Marine & Nichido to significantly increase the efficiency of its work, from when a customer provides loss estimates and other necessary documents until its loss appraisers prepare a report. It in turn ensures swift claims payments to affected customers by greatly reducing the time required to do so (usually about one month if done by loss appraisers).
In the event of a large-area disaster that often imposes considerable pressure on loss appraisers, the use of drones in damage investigation can increase its speed and the number of customers’ properties undergoing investigation. Currently, the process is mainly applied to damage sustained by plants and warehouses owned or operated by companies, but we will examine the possibility of extending its scope to damage on individual customers’ housing and properties.
■ Introducing Technology to Check Damage Status in Real Time. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido has formed a business tie-up with SightCall, Inc. and introduced in July 2019 a WebRTC system to check building and other damage following an accident or disaster. WebRTC is a real-time communication (RTC) system to share imagery and communicate over a web browser, which enables interactive communications between an affected site and a remote office while sharing photos and videos. After a typhoon or torrential rains, for example, the system connects a customer or agent in an affected area with a Tokio Marine & Nichido employee or appraiser in an office in real time. This will eliminate the need to keep customers waiting for a site visit or the trouble of resubmitting required documents, which in turn would lead to quick and accurate identification of damage and swift claims payments to customers.
Tokio Marine & Nichido will continue to provide claims services that are closely attuned to customers and will strive to further improve customer satisfaction by utilizing cutting-edge technologies.
■ Early Disaster Recovery Support Service through a Tie-Up with BELFOR. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido has formed a partnership with BELFOR (Japan) Co., Ltd., a company possessing highly specialized technologies in the disaster recovery support field, and has been providing the Early Disaster Recovery Support Service for corporate customers. The company has added a new rider to essentially all of its fire insurance for business operators to cover the expenses for emergency stabilization measures, allowing policyholders to use the Early Disaster Recovery. 
Support Service of BELFOR under specified conditions without incurring additional costs.
The availability of the Early Disaster Recovery Support Service jointly provided by Tokio Marine &
Nichido and BELFOR has expanded from Japan to the United States, Europe and Southeast Asia. We now have a system to provide support for the early recovery of business operations to customers throughout the world.
< Disaster Recovery Flow Using BELFOR >
Step 1) Verification of disaster and contamination. 
Upon being informed by a customer of the occurrence of a disaster or accident, we contact BELFOR after obtaining consent from the customer for dispatching a crew. BELFOR immediately visits the damaged site, conducts an on-site inspection and draws up a “contamination map” that identifies contaminated areas within the site.
­­↓ ­­↓
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


70. 
Step 2) Emergency stabilization measures. 
To prevent further damage, BELFOR applies emergency stabilization measures, as necessary, to inhibit the progression of corrosion and rust in facilities.
­­↓ ­­↓
Step 3) Proposal of an optimal recovery plan. 
We propose an optimal recovery plan to the customer.
­­↓ ­­↓
Step 4) Full-scale restoration by BELFOR. 
During full-scale restoration operations, BELFOR conducts the restoration of buildings and equipment contaminated with smoke and soot due to fire or mud caused by flooding by using its special cleaning techniques, know-how and originally developed chemicals.
< Representative examples of BELFOR’s special techniques >
BELFOR uses its precision cleaning techniques to restore the condition and functions of contaminated equipment and facilities, for which replacement was the only option available in the past. This helps reduce the business interruption period significantly and is particularly effective in case of customized facilities that require a considerable amount of time to replace.
1. Precision cleaning. 
A technology to dismantle equipment, clean its electronic circuit board by using BELFOR’s originally developed alkali cleaner and deionized water, dry it completely in a vacuum chamber and reassemble the equipment 2. Ultrasonic cleaning. 
A technology to remove corrosion in a short time by cleaning corroded metal equipment via. 
BELFOR’s originally developed rust removal agent in an ultrasonic cleaning tank 3. Soot removal film (SRF)
A technology to remove contamination without using water by spraying a liquid mostly consisting of natural rubber to walls and ceiling and peeling off a dried rubber film afterwards ■ Area Information Network in Time of Disaster. 
In August 2014, Tokio Marine & Nichido concluded an agreement concerning the establishment of an area information network in time of disaster with the 38 member FM radio stations of the Japan. 
FM Network Association (JFN). Under the agreement, Tokio Marine & Nichido and each of the JFN member FM radio stations exchange information via telephone lines in the event of an earthquake or any other disaster. Tokio Marine & Nichido will provide disaster-related information on affected areas, including damage status, as well as procedural guidance for filing insurance claims, while the radio stations transmit the information within these areas, across the corresponding prefecture and nationwide. Through this collaboration, we aim to ensure the security of local community members and help to support the recovery and reconstruction of affected areas.
Before After. 
Before After. 
Spraying process Peeling process. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


71. 
Responding to risks associated with “climate change and natural disasters,” which is one of the sustainability material issues for Tokio Marine Group, also comprises a major management issue that the global insurance industry must address in the medium to long term.
Through industry-academia collaboration with The University of Tokyo, Nagoya University, Kyoto. 
University and Tohoku University, Tokio Marine Group engages in research on climate change and natural disaster risks in an effort to gain deeper scientific insight into disaster prevention and mitigation and to raise the sophistication of measuring methods through risk modelling to ascertain risk volume in even greater detail. Our efforts in this area include development of a stochastic risk assessment approach.
We believe that in addition to providing products and services in developed countries it is also important to disseminate the ideas of an insurance mechanism and risk management practices in developing countries and regions particularly vulnerable to the impact of climate change and natural disasters in accordance with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030, which provides new world guidelines for disaster risk reduction.
To this end, we are working to resolve disaster issues and mitigate disaster damage globally by using the outcomes of our industry-academia research to the benefit of society and by taking part in international initiatives, such as The United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR) Private. 
Sector Alliance for Disaster Resilient Societies (ARISE) and The Geneva Association’s Climate Change and Emerging Environmental Topics (CC+EET) Working Group.
■ Building a Society Capable of Reducing and Adapting to Risks Resulting from Climate. 
Change and Natural Disasters. 
The 21st session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC (COP21) held in December 2015 adopted the Paris Agreement as a new international framework of measures against climate change for 2020 onwards. As the world’s common long-term goal, the Paris Agreement aims to keep a global temperature rise below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. The agreement also makes a clear link between itself and the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030, which was adopted at the Third United Nations World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction held in Sendai in March 2015. There is a concern for the growing natural disaster risk due to climate change, and. 
Tokio Marine Group, working to resolve disaster issues and mitigate disaster damage, also gives due attention to the goal of the Paris Agreement and intends to contribute to its achievement.
Climate change due to global warming and other factors is considered to possibly bring about major changes in the frequency and scale of weather disasters in the future. As such, basing analyses only on past statistical data may prevent appropriate risk assessment and significantly impact the calculation of insurance premiums and the ability to pay insurance claims in the event of a serious disaster.
In response, Tokio Marine Group conducts research on climate change and natural disaster risks and on earthquake and tsunami risk through industry-academia collaboration and presents the outcomes at conferences and forums on disaster risk reduction. We also utilize these outcomes in our social contribution activities and disseminate relevant information to the public. Additionally, we proactively participate in initiatives and events related to climate change to disseminate the outcomes and details of our industry-academia research activities to the world and engage in multi- stakeholder dialogue to share information about the latest research projects and discuss how to promote disaster prevention.
2. Conducting Research on Climate Change and Natural Disaster Risks and Linking the Findings to Product and Service Planning. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


72 《Research on Climate Change and Natural Disaster Risk》 ■ Building a Society Capable of Adapting to Climate Change and Weather Disaster Risk. 
By matching forecasts of future changes in risk due to climate change and other meteorological risk assessment approaches to a base of conventional risk assessment approaches, Tokio Marine Group is aiming to create a more advanced approach to climate change and weather disaster risk assessment.
Utilizing Research Outcomes to Provide Products and Services for Adapting to Climate Change. 
There is a concern that damage concerning natural disasters will increase due to climate change and the resulting greater fluctuations in natural phenomena. Tokio Marine Group is promoting initiatives to resolve weather and other disaster issues and mitigate disaster damage through its business operations. However, as changes in climate and fluctuations in natural phenomena increase, using only the past disaster and insured contingency data may prevent appropriate weather disaster risk assessment and may reduce our ability to provide insurance products and services covering weather disaster risk to customers and local communities as we have done previously.
In response, Tokio Marine Group seeks to promote research on climate change and weather disaster risks in collaboration with the world’s leading scientists and researchers and to use research outcomes and other various findings broadly to the benefit of society. Simultaneously, as a corporate group engaging in the insurance business, we intend to translate our research activities into the ability to sustainably provide insurance products and related services to customers and local communities.
Tokio Marine Group will continue to forge ahead with research on climate change and natural disaster risks with the world’s leading scientists and researchers through industry-academia collaboration and proactively leverage knowledge gained through such research.
Joint Research with The University of Tokyo: Forecasting Future Changes in Typhoon Risk Using. 
Climate Models • With the aim of forecasting future changes in typhoon risk due to global warming, the Tokio. 
Marine Research Institute has been undertaking joint research with The University of Tokyo using an originally developed stochastic typhoon model that estimates future changes in typhoons. More recently, we have also been engaging in research related to forecasts of annual typhoon trends in addition to assessing the impact of global warming on typhoon risk.
• The Atmosphere and Ocean Research Institute at The University of Tokyo, our partner in this joint research, has been conducting research into climate change and other climate systems using an integrated analysis of observation data and results of simulations based on climate models. Professor. 
Masahide Kimoto and other researchers have contributed as lead authors to the creation of the. 
IPCC assessment reports, which are a compilation of the latest findings on climate change, and The. 
University of Tokyo has received acclaim from around the world for the widely used research results.
• The charts below show estimates of the impact of global warming on typhoons based on climate change forecast data from institutions worldwide, using the stochastic typhoon model. These charts indicate the possibility that future typhoons will take more eastward tracks and will become stronger.
The charts at the bottom show warming differentials. Of these, in the charts showing typhoon generation and tracks, blue represents locations where typhoons will decrease in the future, and red represents locations where they will increase. Also, in the chart showing central atmospheric pressure, blue represents locations where central atmospheric pressure will decrease in the future.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


73. 
Joint Research with Kyoto University: Assessment of Water Disaster Risk under Future Climate. 
Conditions • The Tokio Marine Research Institute is engaging in joint research with Kyoto University with the aim of quantitatively assessing changes in water disaster risk under future climate conditions. By also leveraging know-how for estimating precipitation volume under future climate conditions, which has been gained through joint research with Nagoya University, we are conducting research on methods to assess water disaster risk under future climate conditions.
• The Disaster Prevention Research Institute and the Graduate School of Engineering at Kyoto. 
University have top-class researchers in this area, including Professor Eiichi Nakakita and Professor. 
Yasuto Tachikawa, who are co-researchers at the Tokio Marine Research Institute. Working with Kyoto. 
University, the Tokio Marine Research Institute has built a rainfall runoff volume model for Japan’s rivers to simulate river flow volume based on precipitation data.
• The charts below show the results of flood simulations on the Arakawa River based on river flow volumes calculated using the rainfall runoff model and river flow volumes calculated using precipitation data from the d4PDF. The chart on the right simulates a flood under future climate conditions with increased global warming. It shows wider water-immersed surface areas and deeper water immersion than the chart on the left, which shows a flood under the current climate conditions.
• With a view to developing a rainfall runoff model for rivers outside Japan, we are currently conducting research on rivers in Thailand.
Joint Research with Nagoya University: Analysis of Changes in Precipitation Trend due to. 
Global Warming • With the aim of forecasting how climate phenomenon such as typhoons and torrential downpours are changing along with climate change, the Tokio Marine Research Institute is performing joint research with Nagoya University on changes in the precipitation pattern resulting from global warming.
• Professor Kazuhisa Tsuboki from the Institute for Space-Earth Environmental Research at Nagoya. 
University, our partner in this joint research, has developed a high spatial resolution model capable of performing detailed simulation of such aspects as clouds and precipitation, and is advancing research into the mechanisms of torrential rain, typhoons and other phenomena.
• As an example, the charts below show the results using Nagoya University’s high spatial resolution model to simulate the July 2018 heavy rain. Comparing the chart on the left showing the simulation results and the chart on the right showing the actual observed rainfall amounts, we can see that the simulation has adeptly re-created precipitation volume.
• Currently, the Tokio Marine Research Institute is working with Professor Tsuboki and carrying out survey and analysis of torrential rain patterns under future climate conditions by using the Database for Policy Decision-Making for Future Climate Change (“d4PDF”), a database created through a large- scale ensemble experiment.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


74. 
Yamashita, Associate Professor Anawat Suppasri and Project Lecturer Mari Yasuda, who are engaging in assessment of earthquake and tsunami risk and activities to promote disaster prevention and mitigation in local communities. To date, we have conducted assessment of actual damage caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake, assessment of tsunamis following major past earthquakes and research on tsunami risk assessment methods that take into consideration vulnerabilities and disaster readiness capabilities in society both in Japan and overseas. We have also held seminars and developed disaster prevention educational tools to disseminate the knowledge thus obtained widely throughout society.
Research Presentations at Academic Societies and Other Gatherings. 
We will publicize the results of the aformentioned joint research to a broad audience through presentations at academic and other conferences.
• Since fiscal 2008, we have been continually announcing the results of joint research with The. 
University of Tokyo, Nagoya University and Kyoto University, respectively, at the Meteorological. 
Society of Japan.
• Since fiscal 2013, we have been announcing the results of joint research with Nagoya University and. 
Kyoto University, respectively, at the Japan Society of Hydrology and Water Resources.
• Since fiscal 2017, we have been announcing the results of joint research with Nagoya University and. 
Kyoto University, respectively, at the Japanese Society of Insurance Science.
[Major presentations (examples)]
Japan Society of Hydrology and Water Resources presentation (research on water disaster risk) (in Japanese) (PDF/1.8MB) ■Building a Society Capable of Reducing and Adapting to Earthquake and Tsunami Risk. 
In recent years, low-frequency major earthquakes have inflicted serious damage around the world, as seen in the earthquakes in Chile and Northern Sumatra, the Great Sichuan Earthquake, the Great East. 
Japan Earthquake, Kumamoto earthquakes and Hokkaido Iburi earthquake. Against this background,
Tokio Marine Group brings together the expertise and data gained through its non-life insurance and risk consulting businesses to advance initiatives leading to the safety and security of society.
Earthquake and Tsunami Risk Research in Collaboration with the International Research. 
Institute of Disaster Science at Tohoku University • In July 2011, Tokio Marine & Nichido concluded an industry-academia collaborative agreement with Tohoku University and began research and development and human resource development initiatives in disaster science. The initiatives drew upon Tohoku University’s knowledge and data concerning tsunami risk assessment and other areas of disaster science, and Tokio Marine & Nichido’s knowledge and data concerning earthquake and tsunami risk accumulated through its insurance business.
• At Tohoku University, our partner in this collaborative research, the International Research. 
Institute of Disaster Science (IRIDeS) and an endowed research division named the Earthquake- induced Tsunami Risk Evaluation Field (Tokio Marine & Nichido) established within IRIDeS have researchers, including Professor and IRIDeS Director Fumihiko Imamura, Associate Professor Kei • Our activities since April 2012 were selected as a winner of the third Good Practice award in the insurance category at the annual general meeting of the Ministry of the Environment’s Principles for. 
Financial Action for the 21st Century initiative held on March 11, 2015.
• Chart 1 on the next page shows the simulation results of the tsunami caused by the 2011 Great East. 
Japan Earthquake, which hit areas near Kesennuma City, Miyagi Prefecture. This simulation enables us to estimate the distribution of debris and other objects washed ashore and the volume of tsunami deposit, and provides data that is valuable in formulating measures for preventing combined damage as well as post-disaster response plans.
• Chart 2 provides tsunami hazard maps showing tsunamis that have occurred around the world in the past 400 years. These maps indicate that we need to examine not just past tsunamis but also those that are likely to occur in the future.
Image of a tsunami simulation model Source: IRIDeS, Tohoku University. 
Endowed Research Division, IRIDeS, Tohoku University. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


75. 
Chart 1: Simulation of the combined damage in Kesennuma City caused by the earthquakeinduced tsunami in the Tohoku region in 2011 (Created by IRIDeS, Tohoku University)
Chart 2: Tsunami hazard maps showing tsunamis that have occurred around the world in the past 400 years (Created by IRIDeS, Tohoku University) • In March 2017, our research on effects of coastal forests to mitigate tsunami damage, which is being conducted since April 2015, won an outstanding achievement award in the Green Resilience. 
Award category of the Japan Resilience Awards 2017 hosted by the Association for Resilience. 
Japan. Under the same award program, our industry-academia collaborative initiative with Tohoku. 
University for building a disaster-resilient community won an award for excellence in March 2018.
Through industry-academia collaboration with Tohoku University as well as collaboration with various industry, government, academia and private-sector stakeholders, Tokio Marine & Nichido will continue to promote efforts to support recovery of disaster-affected areas, increase resilience in local communities and countries across the world and deliver solutions for a safe and secure future.
Research Presentations at Academic and Other Conferences. 
We present and disseminate the results of the above research at academic conferences and symposiums both in and outside Japan. In fiscal 2019, we conducted 10 presentations at academic conferences in Japan and overseas and disseminated information at the Fourth National Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction held in Nagoya in October 2019, the Second World Disaster Risk Reduction (Bosai) Forum held in Sendai, Miyagi Prefecture, in November 2019 and the Sendai Symposium for. 
Disaster Surveys. 
We also conduct damage and other surveys and risk assessment when a major disaster strikes in or outside Japan. In June 2016, we conducted a field survey of the damage caused by the Kumamoto earthquakes. Also, in response to the tsunami induced by an earthquake that occurred off the cost of Fukushima Prefecture in November 2016, we conducted a survey on the response of society along with a damage survey. The survey results have been presented in the “The Frontline of Risk. 
Management,” a series of reports published by Tokio Marine & Nichido Risk Consulting, a Tokio Marine. 
Group company. Additionally, we provided assistance to the Indonesian government in surveying the damage caused by an earthquake-induced tsunami that hit Palu, a city on Sulawesi Island, and by a tsunami at Sunda Strait said to be triggered by the eruption of Anak Krakatau volcano, both of which occurred in 2018. Following Typhoon Hagibis that made landfall in Japan in October 2019, we conducted a local damage survey in disaster-stricken areas in Miyagi Prefecture along the Yoshida and Abukuma rivers.
Disaster Risk Reduction and the Future also held in Sendai in November 2019 and March 2020. At the Second World Bosai Forum, our endowed research division within IRIDeS, Tokio Marine & Nichido and Tokio Marine & Nichido Risk Consulting jointly hosted a special session entitled “Creating a disaster resilient society through industry-academia collaboration,” which received many participants.
The session presented topics related to academic research, sustainability, practices and initiatives, which are the starting point of creating a society resilient to disasters through industry-academia collaboration. Taking the opportunity of the 10-year milestone of the Great East Japan Earthquake, we will further work to disseminate information on disaster prevention and mitigation in Japan and overseas at various opportunities, including the National Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction held online in October 2020, the Sendai Symposium for Disaster Risk Reduction and the Future scheduled for March 2021 in Sendai, the 30th International Tsunami Symposium (ITS2021) scheduled for July 2021 in Sendai and the 17th World Conference on Earthquake Engineering (17WCEE) to be held in. 
Sendai in around September or October 2021.
[Major presentations (examples)]
Presentation at the Fourth National Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction and the Sendai. 
Symposium for Disaster Risk Reduction and the Future (in Japanese) (PDF/5.5MB)
Presentation at the special session during the Second World Bosai Forum (PDF/5.3MB)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


76 《Multi-Stakeholder Dialogue》
Tokio Marine Group collaborates with insurance companies worldwide to conduct surveys and research into climate change and natural disaster risks and to engage in multi-stakeholder dialogue aimed at reducing and mitigating the risks placed on economic and social life.
The Geneva Association: Extreme Events and Climate Risk Working Group. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido participates in The Geneva Association’s Climate Change and Emerging. 
Environmental Topics (CC+EET) Working Group. In collaboration with insurance companies and other participants worldwide, the company is surveying and researching the impacts of regional climate change and natural disaster risks on the insurance business, economies and society. As one of the CC+EET Working Group’s initiatives, in creating the United Nations’ “Global Assessment. 
Report on Disaster Risk Reduction 2013,” Tokio Marine & Nichido assisted with sections concerning the Great East Japan Earthquake, which were included in the “Contribution of the Insurance Industry in Lessening Disaster Risk: Case Study Collection” (May 2013), a report corroborating statements concerning the role of insurance in lessening risk.
Working in collaboration with The Geneva Association’s secretariat, in October 2013 Tokio Marine & Nichido held The Geneva Association’s “Fifth Climate Risk and Insurance Seminar” in Sendai, where it welcomed Margareta Wahlström, the then United Nations Special Representative of the. 
Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction. On March 16, 2015 Tokio Marine & Nichido also held. 
The Geneva Association’s Public Forum Event, “Insurance as contributors to problem solving and impact reduction,” at the Third United Nations World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction, which took place once again in Sendai. During the conference, Shuzo Sumi, the then Chairman of the Board of Tokio Marine & Nichido, and Anna Maria D’Hulster, Secretary General of The Geneva Association, along with other members, met with Margareta Wahlström and confirmed that the insurance industry will continue to work together with the United Nations and other organizations under the Sendai. 
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 and contribute to ensuring disaster readiness around the world.
The 21st session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC (COP21) was held from the end of November to early December 2015 in Paris, France. Taking the opportunity of COP21, the. 
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and The Geneva Association held the Special Session on Climate Change and the Insurance Sector at the OECD headquarters in. 
Paris on December 3, 2015. From Tokio Marine & Nichido, Masaaki Nagamura, General Manager and. 
Division Head, CSR Division, Corporate Planning Department, joined the session as a panelist and shared some of the findings of a research project undertaken by Tokio Marine Group to forecast typhoon formation under future climate conditions. While explaining our desire to leverage these findings in strengthening society’s resilience in the future, he encouraged stronger government and private sector collaboration in developing countries, which are prone to natural disasters, as well as utilization by governments of the relevant knowledge accumulated by private-sector insurance companies.
Summary of Activities to Date. 
In April 2012, an endowed research division named the Earthquake-induced Tsunami Risk Evaluation. 
Field (Tokio Marine & Nichido) was established within IRIDeS at Tohoku University. This division has been engaging in research on the following topics.
Period Research topic [Phase 1]
April 2012–
Research into earthquake and tsunami risk assessment • Analysis of the wave height distribution and arrival time of tsunamis caused by major past earthquakes, including the Great East Japan Earthquake • Research and development of more reliable damage simulations that take into consideration vulnerabilities and disaster readiness capabilities in society both in Japan and overseas and tsunami risk assessment methods that factor in the probability of occurrence • Research into tsunami evacuation (e.g., providing basic information for disaster mitigation planning of coastal areas and cooperating in formulation of tsunami evacuation plans of regional municipal bodies) [Phase 2]
April 2015– • Research on effects of coastal forests to mitigate tsunami damage • Research on raising the sophistication of tsunami numerical simulation models (encompassing simulations of tsunami-induced flooding, movement of floating objects and movement of soil) • Development of a mobile application (to assess the depth of immersion and immersed surface areas of the 2011 tsunami and subsequent damage to fishing boats) [Phase 3]
April 2018– • Research on damage to farming rafts and eelgrass beds caused by the 2011 earthquake and tsunami • Research on assessment of global tsunami hazards and risk • Research on human damage in past tsunamis. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


77 ■Initiatives and Events Related to Natural Disaster Risk and Climate Change Risk. 
ClimateWise: Thought Leadership “The role of insurers in strengthening business resilience to climate risk”
Tokio Marine & Nichido is the only insurance company in Asia participating in the U.K.-based. 
ClimateWise climate change initiative. Tokio Marine & Nichido (Chairman at the time Kunio Ishihara), drawing on the experiences of insurance companies following the Great East Japan Earthquake and the flooding in Thailand, put forth a proposal in February 2013 entitled “The role of insurers in strengthening business resilience to climate risk” as an article in the Thought Leadership Series (i.e., a proposal to strengthen the role of the insurance industry with respect to climate change risk) under ClimateWise. Specifically, the recommendation stated that “advance preparation of business continuity planning (BCP) that factors in supply chain risks, along with rapid business recovery planning, are important in creating resilience against future climate change and natural disaster risks; as such, companies (and managers) should leverage the knowledge of insurance companies in addressing these.”
ClimateWise Thought Leadership Series (PDF/340.6KB)
Tokio Marine & Nichido has been implementing measures against climate change in accordance with the ClimateWise Principles that are based on the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate- related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The seven ClimateWise Principles are: 1. Be accountable; 2.
Incorporate climate-related issues into our strategies and investments; 3. Lead in the identification, understanding and management of climate risk; 4. Reduce the environmental impact of our business; 5. Inform public policy making; 6. Support climate awareness among our customers/clients; and 7.
Enhance reporting. Tokio Marine & Nichido has accordingly published the following annual report.
Tokio Marine’s ClimateWise Report Annual Reporting 2019-2020 (PDF/618KB)
Providing Recommendations to Society in a Public Symposium of the UNDRR ARISE Network. 
Japan Based on “How Businesses Meet the Challenge of Extreme Weather Events”
On March 10, 2017, the UNDRR Private Sector Alliance for Disaster Resilient Societies (ARISE) Network. 
Japan hosted a public symposium in Tokyo on the theme of “How businesses meet the challenge of extreme weather events.” In the first part of the symposium, the Japanese government (Cabinet. 
Office, Ministry of the Environment and Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism) reported the latest developments in this field. In the second part, members of the ARISE Network. 
Japan delivered presentations on their initiatives. The Tokio Marine Research Institute, serving as a think tank in Tokio Marine Group, gave a lecture on “Modeling flood risks of Arakawa River valley under future climate,” stressed the need to disseminate information on global warming through the promotion of industry-academia collaboration and made recommendations for building a safe, secure and sustainable future.
Providing Recommendations to Society via the World Disaster Risk Reduction (Bosai) Forum and the National Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction. 
On August 27 and 28, 2016, the First National Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction was held in. 
Tokyo. On the first day, Tokio Marine & Nichido and IRIDeS at Tohoku University hosted an industry- academia forum entitled “Providing Safety and Security into the Future – Do We Learn from the. 
Lessons of the Great East Japan Earthquake and Other Disasters?”
In the next year, from November 25 to 28, 2017, the First World Disaster Risk Reduction (Bosai) Forum and the Second National Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction were held in Sendai. On November 27, Tokio Marine & Nichido and IRIDeS at Tohoku University, in collaboration with Tokio Marine &
Nichido Risk Consulting, again hosted an industry-academia forum entitled “Building a Disaster-
Resilient Community in the Asia-Pacific – The Power of Science and Insurance.” After a keynote presentation by Professor and IRIDeS Director Fumihiko Imamura, we held a panel discussion with panelists and a moderator from the Asia-Pacific Financial Forum, the Ministry of Finance, the World. 
Bank and Tokio Marine & Nichido and provided recommendations on developing an effective disaster risk management system through a public-private-academia partnership to build a society resilient to disasters.
At the Third National Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction held in Tokyo on October 13 through 14, the Fourth National Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction held in Tokyo on October 19 and 20, 2019,
Tokio Marine & Nichido’s endowed research division (Earthquake-induced Tsunami Risk Evaluation. 
Field) established within IRIDeS, Tohoku University, ran a booth to hold an exhibition on “Research. 
Activities and Social Contribution Related to Disaster Prevention and Mitigation through an Industry-
Academia Partnership.”
Jointly with Tohoku University, Tokio Marine Group participated in the Fifth National Conference on. 
Disaster Risk Reduction held in Hiroshima in October 2020.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


78 4. Education to Raise Awareness for Natural Disaster Risk, Disaster Prevention and BCP, and Recovery Support for Disaster-Affected Areas. 
Using the lessons learned from earthquakes and other disasters in the past to help people prepare for disasters, and through employee volunteer activities, Tokio Marine Group disseminates disaster prevention information via the media and holds disaster prevention seminars for children and adults with support from research institutes who are our joint research partners.
《Delivering Safety and Security to Children and Small and Medium-Sized Companies》 <Providing School Disaster Mitigation Awareness Lessons through Tohoku University>
Utilizing the lessons learned from the Great. 
East Japan Earthquake, Tokio Marine & Nichido’s endowed research division (Earthquake-induced. 
Tsunami Risk Evaluation Field) established within. 
IRIDeS, Tohoku University, started providing school disaster mitigation awareness lessons for children in fiscal 2014 to build a society resilient to disasters. The lessons have been provided at schools to more than 15,000 children in Japan.
The scope of the activity is expanding from. 
Tohoku to other regions, which are likely to be affected by an impending earthquake in the Nankai. 
Trough and its subsequent tsunami. Overseas, the activity is now carried out also in Hawaii, Thailand,
Indonesia and the Philippines.
The lessons translate the knowledge cultivated through disaster science research of IRIDeS into educational materials that describe disaster risk from a scientific viewpoint, yet in a manner easily comprehensible by children. An original group work tool incorporating elements of brain science and cognitive psychology, “Disaster Prevention and Mitigation Stamp Rally (stamp collecting game),” has also been developed and is used as a teaching aid. As we surveyed and analyzed changes in children’s awareness, we discovered that there is a regional distinction in basic levels of disaster risk awareness between disaster-prone regions and disaster-free regions. Both groups show similarly higher risk awareness immediately after the lessons, but a decline in awareness over time is greater in the second group than in the first group. In the face of increasing and diversifying disasters, it is essential to provide disaster prevention education on a continuous basis for promoting disaster prevention and mitigation.
In order to create a society resilient to natural disaster risk, Tokio Marine Group delivers safety and security to all people and society by developing and providing disaster-related products and services.
《Delivering a Sense of Security before a Disaster》 ■Consulting for Establishment of Business Continuity Management (BCM)
In the wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake, floods in Thailand and frequent torrential rain disasters, there has been a significant change in the business continuity initiatives of Japanese companies, with a shift away from a focus on a company’s own bases toward an approach that encompasses the entire supply chain. To ensure business continuity and quick recovery even in the event of earthquakes, water disasters, spread of infectious diseases and other unexpected contingencies faced by customers, Tokio Marine & Nichido Risk Consulting provides support for the formulation of business continuity plans (BCPs) encompassing supply chains and the establishment of business continuity management (BCM) for continually improving these business continuity initiatives.
Tokio Marine & Nichido Risk Consulting: Business Continuity Management (BCM)/
Business Continuity Plan (BCP) (in Japanese) ■Natural Disaster Consulting. 
The Great East Japan Earthquake and floods in Thailand prompted numerous Japanese companies to reaffirm their awareness of the importance of risk management, and the interest of companies in natural disaster risk remains high. With the aim of protecting customers from such natural disasters as earthquakes and typhoons, Tokio Marine & Nichido Risk Consulting employs original analysis models to quantitatively identify in advance any earthquake and typhoon risks that may vary among regions or types of facilities and, based on this analysis, provides cost-effective risk mitigation solutions for customers. For risks concerning earthquakes, in particular, we also provide such services as developing estimates of earthquake damage based on the results of field surveys and document reviews as well as diagnosis of antiseismic capability of buildings and tsunami simulation models.
Tokio Marine & Nichido Risk Consulting: Natural Disaster Risk Assessment (in Japanese)
Tokio Marine & Nichido Risk Consulting: Measures to Reduce Natural Disaster Risk (in Japanese) 3. Providing Products and Services That Support Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


79 ■BCP Workshop in Collaboration with Local Governments, Chambers of Commerce and Other. 
Organizations. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido offers a program to assist in the formulation of business continuity plans (BCP) for small and medium-sized companies. Sales personnel from the company's branches nationwide, who have completed the required training, serve as lecturers and offer a workshop free of charge in collaboration with our partners, including respective local governments, chambers of commerce, commerce and industry associations and financial institutions. Unlike a lecture-style seminar, the workshop starts with a simulation for participants to experience an earthquake to cultivate keener awareness for the need of a BCP. Then, participants engage in group work to create an outline of a. 
BCP. After the workshop, the company provides follow-up services to help the companies complete their respective BCPs.
■ “Easy, Understandable Planning Sheet for Reinforcing Business Continuity Capability” and “Easy, Understandable BCP Planning Sheet”
We have developed “Rethink Now! Earthquake in the Foreseeable Future and Preparation for It,” a booklet designed to raise awareness of earthquake risk and support resilience building planning of small and medium-sized companies. We also provide the “Easy, Understandable BCP Planning Sheet,” another tool for them to grasp an overall picture of a BCP in one sheet and make their first steps in formulating their own BCPs. These tools cover such disasters as earthquakes, water disasters and infectious diseases and are intended to enable companies to raise the level of their own BCPs as well as their entire supply chain’s BCPs and to make these BCPs more viable by disseminating and instilling the idea of BCP among their employees. Through our employees and agents, we distribute these combined tools to companies, local governments, chambers of commerce and commerce and industry associations.
■ Disaster Prevention Lessons. 
Based on the lessons learned from the Great. 
East Japan Earthquake, employee volunteers from Tokio Marine Group, including its agents, conduct Disaster Prevention Lessons to convey knowledge on disaster prevention to children and help them prepare for a next disaster. Disaster Prevention Lessons are a program to raise readiness for disaster prevention among elementary school children. Employee volunteers from Tokio. 
Marine & Nichido Risk Consulting developed educational materials, which were then supervised by the endowed research division named the Earthquake-induced Tsunami Risk Evaluation Field established within the International Research Institute of Disaster Science (IRIDeS) at Tohoku. 
University, with which Tokio Marine & Nichido has entered into an industry-academia collaborative agreement concerning the assessment of earthquake and tsunami risk. In the lessons, children learn about the mechanisms that cause earthquakes and tsunamis and think about how to protect themselves in an earthquake and what preparations should be made in advance, including what to take with them in an emergency, through a quiz and group discussion. The aim is to cultivate a correct understanding of earthquakes among children and the ability to prepare themselves for an impending disaster. Disaster Prevention Lessons began in fiscal 2012, and as of March 31, 2020, have been held about 680 times at elementary schools and special needs schools across Japan, with approximately 48,930 children attending. Recently, needs for lessons “delivered” to schools are on the rise, and there has been an increasing number of cases where local governments and educational institutions collaborate with companies in providing such lessons. We will continue to deliver safety and security by engaging in awareness and educational activities for disaster readiness through our. 
Disaster Prevention Lessons.
< Supporting the Formulation of Disaster Mitigation and Tsunami Evacuation Plans of Regional. 
Municipal Bodies >
Tokio Marine & Nichido’s endowed research division (Earthquake-induced Tsunami Risk Evaluation. 
Field) established within IRIDeS at Tohoku University in April 2012 has been engaging in research on earthquake and tsunami risk assessment and tsunami evacuation procedures. The division provides its research outcomes as basic information for disaster mitigation planning of coastal areas and cooperates in formulating disaster evacuation plans of regional municipal bodies. Jointly with IRIDeS, the division also promotes such activities as disseminating information and providing recommendations for raising disaster readiness and mitigation for society as a whole.
Children who have received our school disaster mitigation awareness lessons are now leading disaster prevention in their local communities. Among similar initiatives undertaken by universities nationwide, our lessons are unique in that these are social contribution activities covering much greater areas. At the Japan Resilience Awards 2018, our initiative won a gold award in the Educational. 
Institutions category. Tokio Marine Group will continue to collaborate with Tohoku University and facilitate activities to raise children’s disaster prevention awareness.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


80. 
As a result of its joint research with IRIDeS at. 
Tohoku University, Tokio Marine & Nichido has also created the Clear File Folder for Disaster. 
Prevention, which lists emergency goods households should have on hand at all times and specific measures to take in the event of a natural disaster, including an earthquake or tsunami. The folder is available in five versions, Earthquake, Tsunami, Emergency. 
Goods, Earthquake (“Action” edition) and. 
Water and Landslide Disasters, and is useful for keeping important documents in case of a disaster.
These file folders are distributed during Disaster Prevention Lessons, a program to raise readiness for disaster prevention hosted by the company and conducted by employee and agent volunteers, included in Tokio Marine Group’s annual Sustainability Booklet and used in marketing operations as novelty goods to customers, thereby offering ideas of disaster prevention measures that combine the latest knowledge of a university research institute and an insurance company to the public in an easy-to-understand manner.
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Booklet ■­Natural Disaster Risk Seminar by the Tokio Marine Research Institute and Tokio Marine &
Nichido. 
The Tokio Marine Research Institute and Tokio Marine & Nichido jointly hold a seminar on natural disaster risk to provide the latest findings about this risk to company employees and citizens. In fiscal 2019, the two companies held a seminar entitled “Earthquake Risk and Response Required of. 
Companies and Local Governments” on November 18, 2019. The seminar provided information on research into the risk of earthquakes, including an inland earthquake that may occur in Tokyo, as well as companies’ disaster prevention and mitigation initiatives through lectures by experts and a panel discussion.
Seminar by the Tokio Marine Research Institute (in Japanese) ■ Website and Booklets. 
For Tomorrow’s Smiles: Disaster Readiness and Mitigation Information Website, and Clear File. 
Folder for Disaster Prevention. 
Since March 2013, Tokio Marine & Nichido has been operating the “For Tomorrow’s. 
Smiles: Disaster Readiness and Mitigation. 
Information Website” with the aim of contributing to the creation of a secure, safe and sustainable society and providing an opportunity for people to think about disaster readiness and mitigation.
Utilizing knowledge obtained from joint research through industr y-academia collaboration with IRIDeS at Tohoku. 
University, this site uses illustrations, comics and games to offer easily understood explanations of the mechanisms behind “earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanoes, typhoons, tornadoes, torrential downpours and heavy snowfalls, as well as infectious diseases,” along with such other topics on how we should prepare ourselves for and respond to disasters. Other information to help promote disaster awareness includes a simple and useful tool to calculate the necessary amount of emergency food to be stockpiled at home.
For Tomorrow’s Smiles: Disaster Readiness and Mitigation Information Website (in Japanese) 《Recovery Support》
Tokio Marine Group engages in recovery support for disaster-affected areas, including employee volunteer activities.
■ Initiatives to Support Recovery of Areas Affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. 
Tokio Marine Group has been engaging in activities to support areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Starting from May 2011 immediately following the disaster, Group company employees, agents and their families across the country have provided support to disaster areas in Otsuchi-cho (Kamihei-gun) and. 
Rikuzentakata City in Iwate Prefecture and Ishinomaki City and Kesennuma City. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


81 in Miyagi Prefecture. Their activities include removing disaster debris, cleaning up houses damaged in the tsunami, removing mud from houses and street drainage gutters, assisting in agricultural and fishery related work, sorting books for donation to libraries in disaster areas and cleaning damaged and mud-covered photographs and documents.
Tokio Marine & Nichido is also supporting two NPOs engaging in activities to restore tsunami- devastated coastal forests in Natori City and Watari-cho, respectively, along the coast of Miyagi. 
Prefecture.
In Natori City, the Organization for Industrial, Spiritual and Cultural Advancement-International (OISCA) has been leading the Ten-Year Restoration Project of the Coastal Forests of Tohoku Region.
In the project, the company has been participating in activities to restore coastal pine tree forests in the city and to facilitate regional revitalization through the recovery of agricultural land and creation of job opportunities in disaster areas. Under its policy to “never forget the event at any cost and continue to do whatever we can do even in any small way,” the company has been making an annual monetary donation since fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2016, an employee volunteer program was launched, and a total of 43 employees have conducted activities such as removing weeds.
The NPO Watari Greenbelt Project has been engaging in an initiative to restore tide-control forests along the coastal areas and promote the recovery and new community development of Watari- cho, Watari-gun, Miyagi Prefecture. Since fiscal 2013, Tokio Marine & Nichido has been soliciting and sending employee volunteers on a tour to assist in the initiative. During each tour, they visit the coastal areas devastated by the tsunami, remove weeds in planned tree-planting areas and help with cultivating saplings that will be planted along the coast. Up until March 2020, the company has conducted 23 such tours, with the participation of a total of 361 employees, including Group employees, agents and their families.
Also in fiscal 2019, employees of Tokio Marine & Nichido and Group companies made paper lanterns from milk cartons for the Prayer Lanterns Lighting, a memorial event for the Great East Japan. 
Earthquake held in Morioka City, Iwate Prefecture. More than 2,000 lanterns were sent to the Morioka. 
Recovery Support Network, the secretariat of the event. On the day of the event, 36 employees and their families from branches as well as agents in Morioka and other locations volunteered to light lantern candles.
As another ongoing effort, the company provides local dishes of the areas affected by the disaster at its employee cafeteria and donates a portion of sales of these dishes. During the period from April 2019 to March 2020, the company sold 1,200 dishes and donated approximately 120,000 yen to the disaster-stricken areas.
Watari Greenbelt Project (in Japanese)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


82. 
Building a Secure Society by Utilizing Traffic Technology Innovation 3. Local Community and Social Contribution Activities to Promote Crime and Disaster. 
Prevention and Traffic Safety >>
Tokio Marine & Nichido has been cosponsoring and supporting the “Daijoubu Campaign,” a movement to promote disaster and crime prevention and traffic safety, to protect children from disasters and crimes.
1. Research on Issues Related to Autonomous Driving >>
Tokio Marine & Nichido is participating, for the first time as a non-life insurance company, in demonstration tests of autonomous vehicles on public roads and has developed a specialized insurance package for these tests. These activities are geared toward facilitating human resources development and R&D in relation to traffic safety and traffic technology innovation.
❖ Actions for Building a Secure Society by Utilizing Traffic Technology Innovation [Material Issue: Products and Services Beneficial for Safety and Security] [Material Issue: Local Community and Social Contribution Activities and Awareness-Raising and Educational Activities] 2. Insurance Products and Services Facilitating Traffic Safety and Responding to Traffic. 
Technology Innovation >>
In responding to traffic technology innovation, Tokio Marine & Nichido offers insurance for autonomous vehicles, accident support services utilizing traffic technology innovation and safe driving support services. The company also promotes product and service offerings for traffic safety, including One Day Auto Insurance.
Tokio Marine Group is participating in demonstration tests of autonomous vehicles on public roads, and by offering insurance products and services that quickly capture the latest innovation in traffic technology, is contributing to increasing society’s preparedness against traffic risk and the prevention of traffic accidents. We intend to help build a safe society by assisting safe driving mainly using smartphones and promoting widespread use of auto insurance and through employees’ volunteer activities to raise awareness of traffic safety across the world. Through these endeavors,
Tokio Marine Group will support local communities and society and contribute to traffic safety in local communities.
Tokio Marine & Nichido is participating, for the first time as a non-life insurance company, in demonstration tests of autonomous vehicles on public roads and has developed a specialized insurance package for these tests. These activities are geared toward facilitating human resources development and R&D in the area of traffic safety and in relation to traffic technology innovation.
■ Participating in Demonstration Tests on Public Roads for Autonomous Vehicles. 
In April 2016, in keeping with advances in autonomous driving technology and the launch of full- scale demonstration tests of autonomous vehicles on public roads, Tokio Marine & Nichido started participating, for the first time as a non-life insurance company*1, in demonstration tests led by university research institutes and local governments. The aim is to conduct research into various issues that may arise as autonomous driving systems continue to evolve and become popular and to contribute to the continued advancement of the technology by providing solutions to these issues. Also, the company has developed a specialized insurance package to support the smooth and sustainable execution of these tests on public roads.
❖ Relation between Written Content and SDGs. 
Relevant goal Relevant target Contribution to the target achievement 3.6 Halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents • Mobile Agent for displaying insurance-related points of contact, making such a contact and viewing insurance policy details • Drive Agent Personal, an advanced service utilizing an original driving recorder • Participation in demonstration tests on public roads for autonomous vehicles 11.2 Provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems for all, improving road safety, notably by expanding public transport • Rider for Expenses for Saving Victims • Auto insurance for the “sharing economy” • One Day Auto Insurance • e-Cycle Insurance • Auto Insurance Fleet Accident Reduction Assist Rider • Drone Insurance • Cyber Risk Insurance 12.2 Achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources • Web-based insurance policies and contracts (clauses) to promote the non-printing of insurance policies • Promoting the use of recycled automobile parts • Drive Agent Personal, an advanced service utilizing an original driving recorder 1. Research on Issues Related to Autonomous Driving. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


83. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido offers insurance for autonomous vehicles, which meet new needs arising from traffic technology innovation, as well as accident support services and services to assist safe driving utilizing telematics and the Internet of Things (IoT). The company also promotes insurance product and service offerings that facilitate traffic safety and respond to traffic technology innovation, including One Day Auto Insurance for individual customers.
■ Sale of Drive Agent Personal. 
For the first time as a major insurance company in Japan, Tokio Marine & Nichido started providing. 
Drive Agent Personal, an advanced service for individual customers utilizing its original driving recorder, as a rider for auto insurance in April 2017. The company lends its driving recorder to each policyholder and provides a set of leading-edge services as follows.
(1) Advanced accident response service: Upon detecting a serious collision, the recorder reports the incident automatically to a partner company, allowing the customer to have a voice call with an operator and eliminating his or her anxieties immediately following the accident. The operator also calls an ambulance depending on the situation. Moreover, the recorder automatically sends a video of an accident covering before and after the detection of the collision to Tokio Marine & Nichido and releases, when appropriate, the customer from the burden of explaining how the accident has occurred. This video can also be used for resolution of the accident case.
2. Insurance Products and Services Facilitating Traffic Safety and Responding to Traffic Technology Innovation *1 Among the demonstration tests of autonomous vehicles on public roads led by universities in Japan (Survey by Tokio Marine & Nichido) *2 Efma-Accenture Innovation in Insurance Awards 2016 – The product won a Silver prize (second place) in the Best Disruptive Product or Service category.
Our Insurance for Demonstration Tests of Autonomous Vehicles on Public Roads won a Silver prize in an award program*2 to recognize innovative initiatives of insurance companies on a global scale.
The product was recognized for its capabilities to back up public road demonstration tests and contribute to the further advancement of the technology. Responding to new risks associated with technological advancements is at the core of the non-life insurance business. Through forward- thinking research that anticipates advances in autonomous driving technology and by participating in these demonstration tests and providing insurance, Tokio Marine & Nichido will continue to help accelerate the advancement of the technology.
(2) Safe driving support service: The recorder detects sudden braking, acceleration and steering, getting too close to the car in front and not staying centered in a lane in customers’ day-to-day driving and issues warning in real time.
(3) Safe driving diagnosis service: The recorder provides safe driving diagnosis reports, which are created by using Tokio Marine & Nichido’s original algorithm, based on each customer’s tendency toward reckless driving.
In March 2020, Tokio Marine & Nichido introduced, jointly with ALBERT Inc., a new function to automatically calculate the percentage of responsibility of each driver in a car accident by using artificial intelligence (AI) to reproduce the accident based on the video sent from the company’s driving recorder and other data. In this Accident Conditions Reproduction System, AI analyzes accident conditions by using the video of the accident and information from the acceleration sensor of the recorder and from GPS and automatically reproduces the accident on the system. This can significantly reduce the burden on the customer to explain how the accident has occurred. It also enables Tokio Marine & Nichido to quickly check such information as the form of the accident, damaged parts of the vehicle and road shapes and conditions. Based on these pieces of information,
AI automatically determines negligence ratio of the parties concerned, leading to swift resolution of the accident case and payment of insurance claims to the customer.
Tokio Marine & Nichido will continue to bring greater safety and security to customers’ car life through the provision of this telematics-based service.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


84. 
Daijyoubu Campain * A local community safety map, developed by Professor Nobuo Komiya of Rissho University, is a map to show “dangerous,” crime-prone areas, which have been picked based on the two keywords of “easily accessible” and “not openly visible.” The event encourages children to identify dangerous areas by learning what easily accessible, not openly visible areas mean.
3. Local Community and Social Contribution Activities to Promote Crime and Disaster Prevention and Traffic Safety ■ Sale of One Day Auto Insurance. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido provides One Day Auto Insurance (driver insurance available in the unit of days), which can be purchased anytime and anywhere via smartphone and mobile phone. It is the first of its kind in the insurance industry in Japan, allowing infrequent drivers using cars owned by their parents or friends to purchase insurance at the cost of 500 yen a day (24 hours) for just the number of days needed. The product was launched in January 2012, and the cumulative number of subscriptions exceeded 6.6 million (as of July 31, 2020).
Our One Day Auto Insurance received the Nikkei Veritas Award for Superiority at the Nikkei Excellent. 
Products & Services Award 2011, an annual award organized by Nikkei Inc. to recognize exceptional new products and services. In addition to the novelty of enabling customers to buy the auto insurance at a reasonable price, with greater ease and when and where needed, the product was highly acclaimed for its ability to help resolve one social issue of increasing traffic accidents involving uninsured drivers.
In March 2020, we started providing Alexa skills for customers of Tokio Marine & Nichido to subscribe to One Day Auto Insurance using voice through Amazon Echo-series and other Alexa-equipped devices, including speakers, home electric appliances and tablet devices. One Day Auto Insurance has become the first insurance product in Japan that can be purchased by using voice commands.
Currently, the number of traffic accidents by uninsured drivers is estimated to exceed 100,000 a year. Through this product, Tokio Marine & Nichido will continue to contribute to the reduction of uninsured drivers involved in traffic accidents and ensure safety and security by providing products and services that are useful in people’s daily lives and business activities.
Tokio Marine & Nichido: One Day Auto Insurance (in Japanese)
Since September 2007, Tokio Marine & Nichido has been cosponsoring the “Daijoubu Campaign,” a movement led by The Mainichi Newspapers, and supporting activities to protect children and local residents from disasters and crimes.
As part of this campaign, Tokio Marine & Nichido began holding the Workshop to Create Local. 
Community Safety Maps across Japan in fiscal 2011 in collaboration with The Mainichi Newspapers and the 38 radio stations of the Japan FM Network Association (JFN). It is a crime prevention event involving the engagement of Tokio Marine & Nichido’s employees and agents. The event starts with a morning training seminar by Professor Nobuo Komiya of Rissho University, an expert in criminal sociology, to cultivate trainers for the creation of local community safety maps*. After participating in the seminar, they become trainers themselves and carry out field work in the afternoon with local elementary school children around their schools. They identify dangerous areas, explore why they are dangerous and mark them on a map to create a local community safety map.
In fiscal 2019, the event was held at two locations in Japan and was participated in by children and their parents, city officers, police officers, school staff and employees and agents of Tokio Marine &
Nichido.
Tokio Marine & Nichido will continue to contribute to the safety and security of local communities through this and similar initiatives.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


85. 
Increasing Safety in Daily Lives by Responding to Varying Lifestyles and Changes in Society. 
Tokio Marine Group offers services to counter corporate governance and cyber risks as well as services for business operators in Japan in response to the expanding inbound market while working to provide comprehensive coverage that meet the needs in daily lives. In addition, we have implemented measures to deliver natural disaster information and smoothly receive accident notices via the Internet, smartphones and other means.
Increasing Safety in Daily Lives by Responding to Varying Lifestyles and Changes in Society [Material Issue: Products and Services Beneficial for Safety and Security] ❖ Relation between Written Content and SDGs. 
Relevant goal Relevant target Contribution to the target schivement 12. Responsible consumption and production 12.8 Ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature •Home Choice Assist •“Tokio Cyber Port” •Home Cyber Risk Rider •Designated Equipment Water Disaster Rider •Cyber Risk Insurance •Recall Insurance •Inbound business support services (revitalization of regional economies) •Overseas Total Support Desk •Overseas travel insurance for foreign tourists visiting Japan 1. Services Responding to Cyber risks and Inbound Business >>
In the face of growing corporate social responsibility and cyber risks to companies, Tokio. 
Marine Group sells insurance products that offer comprehensive coverage for each risk and has launched a portal site, “Tokio Cyber Port,” to disseminate information on cyber security. The. 
Group also provides inbound business support services for business operators in Japan with the aim of promoting revitalization of regional economies by making the most of the expanding inbound market.
2. Providing Safety and Security by Utilizing the Internet and Smartphones >>
In response to varying lifestyles and changes in society, Tokio Marine Group is striving to build a safe and secure society by providing information on insurance products and smoothly receiving accident notices via the Internet, smartphones and other means.
❖ Actions for 1. Services Responding to Cyber risks and Inbound Business. 
In the face of growing corporate social responsibility and cyber risks to companies, Tokio Marine. 
Group sells insurance products that provide comprehensive coverage for each risk and has launched a portal site, “Tokio Cyber Port,” to disseminate information on cyber security. Tokio Marine Group also provides inbound business support services for business operators in Japan with the aim of promoting revitalization of regional economies by making the most of the expanding inbound market and various travel-related services for foreign tourists visiting Japan.
■ Launching an Online Cyber Security Information Portal Site, “Tokio Cyber Port”
In recent years, it is becoming increasingly difficult to completely block cyberattacks, as work style reforms and widespread use of telecommuting have increased online business operations.
Cyberattacks targeting companies have also become highly advanced and sophisticated. On the other hand, surveys conducted by non-life insurance industry and other organizations have revealed that the sense of crisis over cyberattacks is still low among Japanese companies as compared to their overseas counterparts. As such, increasing their cyber security awareness and reinforcing their related structures have become an urgent task.
Against this backdrop, Tokio Marine & Nichido launched “Tokio Cyber Port,” an online information lounge that compiles the latest information on cyber security measures, in January 2020. It provides a broad range of the latest information and services related to cyber security, including the latest news on cyberattacks and cyber security, columns by experts, free security services, a telephone consultation service for security incidents, an incident response manual and other useful information.
https://tokiocyberport.tokiomarine-nichido.co.jp/cybersecurity/s/ (in Japanese)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


86. 
In line with varying lifestyles and changes in society, demand is rising for products and services that are available via the Internet, smartphones and other means. Tokio Marine & Nichido and E. design. 
Insurance work to support the safety and security of customers by utilizing smartphones and provide smartphone apps with a variety of features, including displaying insurance-related points of contact, making such a contact, viewing insurance policy details and reporting an accident using positioning information through GPS.
■Supporting Safety and Security via Smartphones. 
Smartphones accounted for about 90% of mobile phones sold domestically in fiscal 2019 and have been rapidly gaining popularity among users.
Tokio Marine & Nichido provides the free smartphone app Mobile Agent to customers. Policyholders use this app to check the corresponding insurance company's and the responsible agent's points of contact and view details of their policies anytime, anywhere. It also has several features that support customers to handle a traffic accident smoothly.
These include an accident reporting feature that identifies the location of an accident via GPS, a simple procedure to request a tow truck in a minimum of three taps, a function to easily send 2. Providing Safety and Security by Utilizing the Internet and Smartphones ■ Implementing Inbound Business Support Services for Japanese Business Operators. 
By contributing to the revitalization of regional economies based on solutions offered by Tokio. 
Marine Group, Tokio Marine & Nichido aims to expand its business and achieve growth together with each region. As part of this effort, and to promote revitalization of regional economies by making the most of the expanding inbound market, the company initiated services free of charge in July 2016 to customers subscribing to its Comprehensive Business Insurance Program, a nationwide group insurance scheme for chamber of commerce members, including a multilingual telephone interpretation service and an inbound consulting service, to help customers set up a system to solicit and accept inbound tourists.
On January 12, 2017, the company’s efforts to implement services for supporting domestic operators of inbound businesses received ministerial commendation as a fiscal 2016 model example of regional economy revitalization initiatives being promoted by financial and other organizations.
As one pillar of our regional revitalization efforts, we will continue to seek growth of regional economies by offering safety and security to foreign visitors, the number of which is expected to increase further in the future, and by assisting Japanese inbound business operators in setting up a system to accept these visitors.
In response to the growing inbound market, starting from July 2019 the services have been expanded to include all customers who have enrolled in Super Business Insurance.
■ Launch of a New Type of Overseas Travel Insurance for Foreign Tourists Visiting Japan. 
With an increase in the number of foreign nationals visiting Japan, efforts are being undertaken by the Japanese government and in the private sector to ensure the safety and security of foreign tourists against unexpected injury and illness.
The aim is to familiarize companies with cyber security and encourage them to utilize “Tokio Cyber. 
Port” for their cyber security measures.
Tokio Marine & Nichido was the first among leading non-life insurance companies in Japan to develop Cyber Risk Insurance in 2015 to support many companies in the country’s cyber security domain as an insurer forming a part of social infrastructure. The company will continue to contribute to the creation of a safe and secure society by playing the role of backing up innovation of related technologies in Japan.
Tokio Marine & Nichido has been providing a new type of overseas travel insurance, TOKIO. 
OMOTENASHI POLICY, since July 2016, which covers costs of treatment when foreign tourists are injured or become sick in Japan and costs for transferring patients or bodies to their home countries.
Travelers can easily purchase this product via smartphones and tablet devices after arriving in Japan. In addition to a cashless service for treatment costs and an interpretation service via telephone, the product also includes an application service (Tokio Marine & Nichido’s exclusive smartphone app), which provides services much needed by foreign tourists.
By providing this product and its services, Tokio Marine & Nichido seeks to support foreign tourists’ comfortable travel experience in Japan and to contribute to the creation of a more tourist-friendly environment.
TOKIO MARINE Safety Information. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


87 ■One-Click Approximate Premium Estimate for Auto Insurance. 
Previously, the process of requesting an accurate estimate of insurance premiums required about 30 clicks, and many customers expressed, in user surveys, their desire to just have an approximate estimate as a first step. In response, E. design Insurance has reexamined a common practice in the insurance industry, which requires customers to answer all questions before getting a premium estimate, and developed a web page to provide an approximate premium estimate for auto insurance in one click.
By carefully selecting questions that can be intuitively answered, the company has created a new customer experience that enables customers to receive an approximate premium estimate anytime, anywhere without having to have insurance policies or automobile inspection certificates on hand.
Additionally, in order to perform the calculation of an approximate premium, the company has analyzed vehicle types and policies of customers subscribing to Internet auto insurance so that the photographs of a damaged vehicle or accident site taken by a policyholder to Tokio Marine & Nichido and a function to enable the real-time monitoring of accident response status via push notifications.
Since January 2019, the company has started providing discounts to customers who choose web- based policies (auto insurance and Super Business Insurance) during the contracting process and has been improving the app’s operability. Additional efforts have been made to increase the functionality as a disaster prevention and mitigation app to prepare for major natural disasters, including reinforcement of its feature to provide disaster and evacuation information and the sharing of policy details among family members. Tokio Marine & Nichido will continue to further strengthen our platform for interacting with customers digitally through Mobile Agent.
Additionally, E. design Insurance allows customers to complete overall procedures, from requesting an estimate to final application for auto insurance, via smartphone. A dedicated web page is set up for each customer to report accidents and verify accident response status in addition to making changes to contract details and renewal procedures. The smartphone app Accident Site Call enables customers to easily and quickly make reports in case of accidents or car troubles. The actual location is notified via GPS so that customers can immediately request for the SECOM Accident On-site Rush. 
Service or road service even in an unfamiliar place.
Tokio Marine Group will work further to support the safety and security of customers by utilizing smartphones.
Tokio Marine & Nichido: Mobile Agent (in Japanese)
E. design Insurance: Annual Report (in Japanese) approximate estimate will not differ significantly from an accurate estimate.
E. design Insurance will continue to generate a new culture and pursue fintech in its true sense by maintaining its approach to improving the design of its Internet auto insurance and creating new financial and insurance experiences for customers in Japan.
■Preparing for Typhoons and Torrential Downpours by Using “Personalized” Videos. 
How we should prepare for a typhoon, heavy snow or earthquake depends on where we live and what insurance we are enrolling in. Tokio Marine & Nichido distributes “personalized” videos corresponding to customers’ varying situations, each providing customized information on necessary preparations and required insurance. These videos can be viewed from PCs, smartphones and tablet devices, and the company provides a service on a regular basis for customers to check information on disaster risks and details of coverage in an easy-to-understand manner.
■Examples of Initiatives toward High-Quality Solicitation. 
In April 2012, Tokio Marine & Nichido rolled out an initiative that utilizes tablet devices to enhance comfort and convenience for customers. For Super Insurance, auto insurance, fire insurance, accident insurance and life insurance―our main products for individual customers―we introduced the paperless Raku Raku Tetsuzuki (Quick and Easy Online Procedures), which allows customers to request a premium estimate, view product descriptions and apply for insurance on their tablet and other devices. These procedures enable us to provide easy-to-understand product descriptions with videos and electronic pamphlets. We have also introduced “Your Enrollment at a Glance,” which enables customers to visually check their family’s insurance enrollment status on their tablet and other devices.
The initiative received a 2014 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) Minister’s Award in recognition of its contribution to informatization of the economic society. It also won the top IT. 
Overall Award at the 31st Information Technology Award 2013 sponsored by the Japan Institute of. 
Information Technology. In the future as well, Tokio Marine & Nichido will strive to further enhance comfort and convenience for customers through a diverse range of initiatives.
Screen images of Raku Raku Tetsuzuki contract procedures. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


88. 
Eliminating Poverty in Society. 
Based on its know-how accumulated in the insurance business, Tokio Marine Group has developed and initiated sales of weather insurance and microinsurance in India, thereby providing low-income earners with greater access to insurance. We also hope to contribute to the resolution of poverty issues in the world through such efforts as financing to and investment in financial institutions providing microfinancing services.
❖ Relation between Written Content and SDGs. 
Relevant goal Relevant target Contribution to the target achievement 1.5 Build the resilience of the poor and those in vulnerable situations and reduce their exposure and vulnerability to climate-related extreme events levels of decision-making in economic life. 
Increasing prevalence of microinsurance in India 2.3 Double the agricultural productivity and incomes of smallscale food producers through secure and equal access to financial services. 
Weather insurance and microinsurance in India. 
Initiatives toward Microinsurance [Material Issue: Products and services beneficial for safety and security]
Weather insurance and microinsurance developed and sold by Tokio Marine Group are as listed below.
• Sankatharan Bima Yojna (India): Low-cost accident insurance available for 1 rupee (about 1.5 yen) per year as an incidental to fertilizer • Mahila Suraksha Bima Yojna (India): Accident insurance aimed at women in farming communities • Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojna (India): A medical insurance scheme for low-income earners sponsored by the government of India • Biju Krushak Kalyan Yojana (India): A medical insurance scheme with add-on medical insurance for low-income earners sponsored by state governments of India • Barish Bima Yojna / Mausam Bima Yojna (India): Weather insurance product that evaluates climate risks such as precipitation volume and temperature in all areas of India and takes into account the impact of unseasonable climate on grain harvest yields in farming communities. 
Reducing Poverty ■ Increasing Prevalence of Weather Insurance and Microinsurance in India. 
Poverty Issue among Farmers in India. 
Agriculture is a key industry in India’s economy, with about 50% of the country’s working population being farmers. As most water for agricultural use is from rainwater, farmers may suffer serious economic consequences when agricultural production decreases due to drought or excessive rains.
Thus, stabilizing farmers’ living is a critical challenge for the country.
Development of Weather Insurance and Microinsurance Jointly with IFFCO-TOKIO. 
In 2001, Tokio Marine Group established IFFCO-TOKIO. 
General Insurance Co., Ltd.
(IFFCO-TOKIO), a non-life insurance company, as a joint venture with Indian. 
Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative. 
Limited (IFFCO), which has a nationwide network of 38,000 member cooperatives, and began offering auto, fire and other insurance in India.
From the start, the business tackled the issue of how to resolve the lifestyle of uncertainty faced by farmers in India through the mechanism of insurance and looked into the development of weather insurance and microinsurance (i.e., insurance available at low cost). These products are becoming essential in stabilizing the lives of people in farming communities, with 19.42 million policies and 19.0 billion rupees (approximately 28.5 billion yen) in premiums written in fiscal 2019.
In 2001, the company, in collaboration with IFFCO, started sales in India’s rural communities of. 
Sankatharan Bima Yojna, low-cost accident insurance available for 1 rupee (about 1.5 yen) per year as an incidental to fertilizer. Since then, the company has released other microinsurance products, including Janta Bima Yojna, property insurance available for 100 rupees (about 150 yen) per year;
IFFCO-TOKIO headquarters Accident insurance available as an attachment of fertilizer sold in collaboration with IFFCO. 
Members of the Rural Marketing Team of IFFCO-TOKIO and Rural Community Area Managers of IFFCO (in front of IFFCO’s grain depot center)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


89. 
IFFCO-TOKIO’s Efforts to Increase Prevalence of Medical Insurance for Low-Income Earners. 
Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojna (RSBY) is a medical insurance scheme for low-income earners sponsored by the government of India. It was launched in 2008 in India through joint efforts among insurance companies, medical institutions and the government. Subscribers to RSBY only need to pay 30 rupees (about 45 yen) per household as a registration fee with coverage up to 30,000 rupees annually (about 45,000 yen) for a maximum of five persons per household in case medical services are required for injury or illness. IFFCO-TOKIO began selling RSBY in 2011 and launched add-on medical insurance in 2014 under Biju Krushak Kalyan Yojana (BKKY), another insurance scheme for low-income families sponsored by a state government. The company has delivered security to approximately 15.08 million people with low incomes. RSBY and BKKY have become essential medical insurance schemes for people who previously could not receive sufficient medical services because of their economic situation.
Dr. Shalabh Singhal IFFCO-TOKIO General Insurance Co., Ltd. Chief Manager. 
RSBY is becoming more widespread in India. Our aim is to make sure that people are always smiling (Muskurate Raho). We will strive to provide medical insurance so that people receive appropriate treatment when required and can live happy and healthy lives irrespective of economic burden or hardship.
and Mahila Suraksha Bima Yojna, accident insurance aimed at women in farming communities.
IFFCO-TOKIO offers Barish Bima. 
Yojna/Mausam Bima Yojna, an index-based weather insurance product that takes into account the impact on grain harvest yields in farming communities due to unseasonable climate in the wet monsoon season (June to September) and the dry rabi season (October to. 
April). Development of this revolutionary product leveraged IFFCO-TOKIO’s capabilities in market surveys aimed at local farmers and Tokio Marine Group’s years of expertise in insurance underwriting accumulated in Japan to evaluate climate risks such as precipitation volume and temperature in all areas of India. To gain communities’ understanding of the weather insurance mechanism and spread its use, the company has been conducting briefings for farmers in every state in India on an ongoing basis together with banks, NGOs and other partners.
Currently, the company sells weather insurance, including its own as well as other government- sponsored products such as Pradhan Manti Fasal Bima Yojana (RMFBY) and Weather Based Crop. 
Insurance Scheme (WBCIS), to about 4.29 million farming households per year.
Crop and Weather Insurance details FY2019: GWP INR 18,833 million, Claims Paid INR 9,294 million 0
20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20. 
GWP Claims Paid 2,058 2,013 1,571 3,389 7,646 15,734 12,006 9,294 1,236 2,591 1,525 911 12,552 10,770 18,471 18,833. 
Crop and weather insurance sales (unit: million rupees)
Insurance soliciting. 
Subscribers to RSBY and BKKY are given a biometric card.
Information regarding insurance and consultation at a medical institution is managed on the card and customers can choose to have a consultation at one of more than 10,000 public or private medical institutions in India.
Initiative to Support Low Incomes in the United States. 
The Tokio Marine North America Services (TMNAS) Finance Team has implemented an initiative to support low incomes via the reduced tax burden with Philadelphia Insurance Companies (PHLY) and their long-time business partner Affordable Equity Partners (AEP).
The housing complexes developed by AEP and their partners are financed through the sale of the tax credits to PHLY, and when completed are rented to low income members of the communities. PHLY benefits via the reduced tax burden made possible by the tax credits purchased from AEP. So far, PHLY has invested over US$2.65 million, which has gone toward the 2,500 units across six states in the United States. The relationship is a “win-win-win” for PHLY, TMNAS and AEP and the 2,500 families living in the beautiful new facilities.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


90. 
Core Theme 2: Protecting the Earth. 
Sustainability & ESG Highlights. 
Global environmental issues are both old and new issues and thus continuous global environmental and biodiversity protection initiatives are paramount. In addition, our social life is being threatened by the frequent occurrence of natural disasters such as typhoons, droughts and torrential rains around the world due to climate change.
The global issues of “climate change and natural disasters” and “biodiversity depletion” pose serious risks for the children not only of today but also of the future and at the same time have a significant impact on the business of Tokio Marine Group.
Having set “Protecting the Earth” as a core theme, Tokio Marine Group is taking steps to reduce the environmental footprint in business activities in which all employees participate, reduce the environmental footprint in the supply chain and tackle initiatives related to environmental management aimed at becoming carbon neutral based on efforts to deploy our environmental management system. Moreover, we continuously work to provide products and services that are designed to mitigate or adapt to climate change and protect biodiversity, and to implement environmental protection activities as well as regional and social contribution activities that include environmental awareness raising and education. Through these initiatives, we actively contribute to preservation of the global environment, protection of biodiversity and the creation of environmental value.
Sustainability Materiality (Material Issues)
Efforts to implement environmental protection activities resulted in a reduction in CO2 emissions by 4.4% (Scope 1, 2 and 3 year on year) and carbon neutral status (eighth time for the seventh consecutive year)
Tokio Marine Group promoted the development of clean energy through such means as providing insurance supporting offshore wind power generation.
Tokio Marine Group strengthened ties with NGOs and local communities through the Green Gift Project.
• Climate change and natural disasters • Technological innovation • Protection of the global environment •Local community and social contribution activities •Promoting ESG in the provision of products and services. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


91. 
Value Creation Contributing to a Sustainable Global Environment. 
Examples of sustainability approach (Protecting the Earth)
Preserving Biodiversity and Wetlands through Products and Services. 
The Green Gift Project, which involves mangrove planting and environmental protection activities worldwide, is supported by NGOs and NPOs, as well as central and local governments, agents and employee volunteers, and contributes to not only the alleviation of and adaptation to climate change and protection of biodiversity but also the reduction in disaster damage and stability in the lives of people in or near forested areas.
Preventing Global Warming by Promoting the Development of Clean Energy. 
In order to prevent damage due to climate change from spreading, Tokio Marine Group is providing products and services that support the development and operation of renewable energy facilities.
Building Communities for People to Live with Peace of Mind through Environmental Protection. 
Activities. 
Based on the theme “Protecting the Earth,” Tokio Marine Group is implementing local and social contribution activities around the world that help protect the environment and biodiversity. These activities emphasize voluntary engagement by employees and tie-ups with NPOs and other groups.
Tokio Marine Group will implement a variety of initiatives to protect the environment as a global insurance group with responsibility for the future of the earth.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


92. 
Preserving Biodiversity and Wetlands through Products and Services. 
The Green Gift Project, which involves mangrove planting and environmental protection activities worldwide, is supported by NGOs and NPOs, as well as central and local governments, agents and employee volunteers, and contributes to not only the alleviation of and adaptation to climate change and protection of biodiversity and Wetlands but also the reduction in disaster damage and stability in the lives of people in or near forested areas. Additionally, we believe that creating mangrove forests will contribute to the attainment of various SDGs, including alleviation of climate change, promoting the sustainable use of natural resources and mitigating damage from natural disasters. In the future as well, Tokio Marine Group will promote the creation of mangrove forests toward the realization of a sustainable society.
2. Tree Planting Activities in Southeast Asia and Communicating Relevant Information >>
Tokio Marine & Nichido has been planting mangrove trees mainly in Southeast Asia since 1999 in conjunction with multiple NGOs. On top of this, employees participate in tree-planting tours and give classes on biodiversity to communicate to society the significance of mangrove planting activities, which nurture a rich ecosystem and contribute to the sustainable development of local communities.
1. Promoting Eco Activities Jointly with Customers through the Green Gift Project >>
Tokio Marine & Nichido, Tokio Marine Millea SAST Insurance and other Group companies are working with agents and supporting mangrove planting overseas and environmental protection activities in Japan by promoting the Green Gift Project and other initiatives to enable customers to view their policies online and donate a portion of the proceeds saved by reducing paper consumption to NPOs and NGOs.
❖Relation between Written Content and SDGs ❖ Actions for Preserving Biodiversity and Wetlands through Products and Services [Material Issue: Conservation of the Global Environment through Products and Services] [Material Issue: Local Community and Social Contribution Activities and Awareness-Raising and. 
Educational Activities]
Relevant goal Relevant target Contribution to the target achievement 6.6 Protect and restore water-related ecosystems, including mountains, forests, wetlands, rivers, aquifers and lakes • Green Gift Planet GENKI Program, Mangrove Planting Project 12.5 Substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse • Promoting the non-printing of insurance policies, webbased insurance policies and contracts (clauses) 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries • Green Gift Project • Mangrove Planting Project • Achieving carbon neutral status 14.1 Prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution of all kinds 14.2 Sustainably manage and protect marine and coastal ecosystems to avoid significant adverse impacts • Green Gift Project • Mangrove Planting Project • Green Gift Planet GENKI Program 15.1 Ensure the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of terrestrial and inland freshwater ecosystems and their services, in particular forests, wetlands, mountains and drylands • Green Gift Project • Mangrove Planting Project • Green Gift Planet GENKI Program • Ten-Year Restoration Project of the Coastal Forests of Tohoku Region • Tree planting together with customers: PHLY 80K Trees. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido, Tokio Marine Millea SAST Insurance and other Group companies are supporting mangrove planting overseas and environmental protection activities in Japan by donating a portion of the proceeds saved by reducing paper consumption through an initiative enabling customers to view their policies online being implemented together with agents. These proceeds are donated to NPOs and NGOs.
■ Creating Value through the “Green Gift” Project. 
Through eco-friendly products, Tokio Marine & Nichido acts as one with its agents in engaging in global environmental protection initiatives and welcomes participation by customers as well.
With the support of its customers, in 2009 Tokio Marine & Nichido initiated the Green Gift Project based on the concept of undertaking eco activities. Under this project, when a customer chooses 1. Promoting Eco Activities Jointly with Customers through the Green Gift Project. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


93. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido has planted mangrove trees mainly in Southeast Asia since 1999 in conjunction with multiple NGOs that have extensive know-how in planting mangroves overseas.
Mangrove planting not only ensures the fixation (absorption) of CO2, but also promotes biodiversity and provides benefits to the local population.
Tokio Marine & Nichido employees conduct mangrove planting tours, and employees and agents give lessons on biodiversity derived from mangrove planting to convey the significance of biodiversity- related activities through mangrove planting to society.
■ Green Gift Project: Mangrove Planting. 
Status of Mangrove Planting. 
Since 1999, Tokio Marine & Nichido has been conducting its Mangrove Planting Project primarily 2. Tree Planting Activities in Southeast Asia and Communicating Relevant Information web-based insurance contracts (clauses) on its website rather than a paper-based contract in brochure form, the company donates funds corresponding to a portion of the value of the reduction in paper used to NPOs and NGOs involved in environmental protection activities. Such funds are then used to support costs of mangrove planting and educational support programs in developing countries, while in Japan they are mainly used to provide support to environmental protection activities for children in different areas and a project to rejuvenate the forest on the coast damaged in the Great East Japan Earthquake.
Customers’ selection of the web policy option leads to the conservation of paper resources.
Additionally, it allows the company to reduce the environmental footprint created by the manufacture of paper and its transport to the company, the mailing of policies to customers and the disposal of policies when unneeded after maturity. The Green Gift Project also provides a number of other beneficial effects. These include conserving paper resources and contributing to the prevention of global warming and the preservation of biodiversity via mangrove planting activities and communicating to children, who will lead future generations, the importance of the earth’s environment through their actual participation in environmental protection activities in Japan. In fiscal 2019, the number of contracts taking advantage of the web policy option was approximately 11.8 million, representing a reduction in paper usage of approximately 2,837 tons.
■ Disclosing Information on the “Green Gift” Project. 
To help customers better understand the activities of the Green Gift. 
Project, the company established a Green Gift page on its website that reports on each of the initiatives. With regard to mangrove planting activities, the page reports on topics such as planting activities in various countries where mangrove planting is undertaken, updates on the growth of planted saplings and the volume of CO2 absorbed through planting.
The page also provides reports on the Green Gift Planet GENKI Program, an environmental protection activity carried out in each region in Japan mainly for children, the leaders of the future.
As other topics, the page shows the company’s involvement in educational support programs conducted by the international NGO Room to Read in developing countries such as India, Bangladesh and Vietnam aimed at improving education for children where mangrove planting takes place as well as a program to restore the forest along the coast devastated by the Great East Japan Earthquake conducted by the Organization for Industrial, Spiritual and Cultural Advancement-International (OISCA).
Through this project, Tokio Marine & Nichido will continue to create social value via initiatives aimed at conservation of paper resources, prevention of global warming, conservation of biodiversity, reduction of disaster damage and contribution to local economies, communities and human resources development.
■ Promoting Non-Printing of Insurance Policies. 
Since February 2013, Tokio Marine Millea SAST Insurance has been implementing, as part of its shift toward paperless operations, an initiative under which customers can view their policies on its website rather than on paper, which has helped reduce paper consumption. In addition, since April 2013, a portion of the proceeds saved through this move has been used to support and participate in the tree-planting activity in Meguri’s Forest in Shonan. 
International Village, Kanagawa Prefecture, where the company’s head office is located. This project involves dense planting and mixed planting of a variety of locally indigenous seedlings, which are the most stable seedlings and capable of survival, to let nature take its course in restoring the forest to its original form. By doing so, the project aims to “create a forest that protects life” and thus supports the community, economy and an enriched society.
Although nurturing the seedlings into a forest takes much time, through this activity, employees, their families and the company are united as one in increasing awareness of the need to protect the global environment.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


94 in Southeast Asia. During the 21-year period to fiscal 2019, we planted about 11,240 hectares of new forest in nine countries: Indonesia, Thailand, the Philippines, Vietnam, Myanmar, Fiji, India,
Bangladesh and Malaysia. (We have consigned the work to evaluate the status of mangrove growth and CO2 absorption and fixation in planted areas to the Central Research Institute of Electric Power. 
Industry (CRIEPI) and have been receiving reports from the institute.)
The activity was rolled out as a commemorative project to celebrate the 120th anniversary of Tokio. 
Marine & Nichido, with the original idea coming from employees who voiced their desire to launch a long-lasting initiative in the environmental field. The project is conducted in partnership with the NGOs Action for Mangrove Reforestation (ACTMANG), OISCA and the International Society for. 
Mangrove Ecosystems (ISME) and through collaboration with local governments and communities.
In 2019, which marked the 20th anniversary of the project, Tokio Marine & Nichido formulated its. 
Mangrove-based Value Co-creation 100-Year Declaration and announced its intention to create value together with stakeholders, including NGOs, local government agencies and residents in planting regions as well as employees, agents and customers.
Benefits of Mangrove Planting for the Environment and Local Life “Mangrove” is a generic term for flora that thrives in brackish waters (where seawater and fresh water meet) along tropical and subtropical coastlines and river mouths in Asia, Africa and South America.
Mangroves are sometimes referred to as “forests in the sea” and are effective in mitigating global warming as they absorb and fix large volumes of CO2, a major cause of global warming. They also serve as natural levees to protect people’s lives and local ecosystems from tidal waves, tsunamis and other natural disasters.
Mangroves protected the lives of many people as well as buildings and structures when the tsunami that occurred in the Indian Ocean hit in December 2004 and the typhoon that wreaked havoc in the. 
Philippines in November 2013 (named Yolanda in the Philippines and Haiyan in English). At present, mangroves are being planted in the Demak area of Indonesia and Gujarat State in India, which are susceptible to coastal erosion and flooding, with the main objective being to protect people’s lives and keep buildings and structures intact.
The roots of mangrove trees also serve as “cradles of life,” creating a rich ecosystem by providing a sanctuary for living creatures such as young fish, shellfish, crabs and shrimps that feed off mangrove leaves and berries while attracting monkeys and birds, and also because the roots help ensure a gentle tide and waves at high tide and maintain water temperature. Fish and shellfish caught in the sea and in rivers near mangrove forests in Quảng Ninh Province in Vietnam and Ranong. 
Province in Thailand are the staple diet of the local people and a source of income through sales to intermediaries, thus contributing to sustainable regional development. In addition, the mangroves themselves are being used in a variety of different ways. Along with the seeds and fruits being used to make soup and sweets, the leaves become feed for farm animals and the trunks and branches are used as materials for the pillars and roofs of people’s homes, thereby providing excellent support to the lives of the people.
Tokio Marine & Nichido considers mangroves as “insurance for the future of the Earth” because they protect the planet and people’s lives and bring benefits.
The company is committed to being involved in the Mangrove. 
Planting Project for 100 years jointly with NGOs and local gover nment agencies and residents. The project has been up and running for 21 years to date and the mangrove forests continue to grow. Going forward, the company plans to put more effort into activities that protect and nurture mangrove forests.
Indian Ocean tsunami following earthquake off the island of Sumatra in December 2004. 
Benefits of mangroves. 
Mangrove planting area in Ranong, Thailand, the area behind which was protected from tsunami damage. 
Fish catches are more abundant thanks to the mangroves. (Ranong Province, Thailand)
Tale Nok near Ranong, Thailand, which did not have mangroves, was damaged by the tsunami.
The young leaves of the grey mangrove are used as feed for farm animals. (Gujarat State, India) ■Economic Value and Impact on Local Communities from Mangrove Planting. 
To the present, mangrove planting has generated diverse benefits such as mitigating and preventing global warming, preserving biodiversity and contributing to the development of local economies, communities and human resources. However, expressing the specific economic value created by this project had proved difficult. To determine this value, Tokio Marine & Nichido commissioned. 
Mitsubishi Research Institute, Inc. to undertake a survey and make assessments based on internationally recognized methods. The results of provisional calculations show that the total economic value created by the Mangrove Planting Project from April 1999 when the company started the planting to the end of March 2018 totaled 118.5 billion yen.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


95 ■ Mangrove Planting Tours. 
Since 1999, Tokio Marine & Nichido has been promoting its Mangrove Planting Project in Southeast Asia and other countries and regions and conducting a volunteer tour to plant mangrove trees about once a year.
Tokio Marine Group employees, agents and retired employees as well as their families participate in these tours as volunteers to plant mangrove seeds and saplings with local residents and children and visit villages and elementary schools in respective regions to promote international exchange. As of March 2020, we have conducted 20 mangrove planting volunteer tours, in which a total of approximately 590 members have participated.
 ■Green Gift Project: Educational Support Programs in Developing Countries. 
We provide educational support for children in areas that we plant mangroves through such measures as participating in Room to Read’s educational support programs in developing countries.
■Green Gift Planet GENKI Program. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido is implementing the Green Gift Planet GENKI Program, which tackles environmental protection initiatives together with local citizens and includes donations to environmental NPOs and other groups as well as participation in environmental activities throughout. 
Japan.
The project is conducted in conjunction with Japan NPO Center, a specified non-profit corporation that has received backing from the Ministry of the Environment and is responsible for the coordination and operation of the entire project. The aim is to provide children in each region, the leaders of the future, with the opportunity to learn about local environmental issues and foster a desire to protect the environment.
The activities offer the chance for local NPOs and other groups to collaborate with new stakeholders such as Tokio Marine & Nichido and its agents. It is also a great chance for the company’s customer contact branches to meet with local governments, environmental NPOs and other members of the local community. As of March 2020, around 16,880 participants (including around 7,290 children) had taken part in 290 different events to protect local forests, woodlands, river valleys and the sea.
Green Gift Planet GENKI Program (in Japanese) ■Green Gift Project: Ten-Year Restoration Project of the Coastal Forests of Tohoku Region. 
Tokio Marine Group supports the Ten-Year Restoration Project of the Coastal Forests of Tohoku Region damaged in the Great East Japan Earthquake.
■Tree-Planting Together with Customers: PHLY 80K Trees Initiative. 
Philadelphia Insurance Companies (PHLY) has continued to conduct the “PHLY 80K Trees” tree planting program since 2015, inspired by Tokio Marine & Nichido’s Green Gift Project. With the cooperation of customers and agents, the initiative has provided the funding for 320,000 trees to date through costs saved by encouraging customers to make electronic payments and asking agents to cooperate by making direct deposits of commissions and reducing the preparation of paper statements as well as donations from the company and its employees. In 2019, 35 PHLY employees participated in a tree-planting tour, with more than 150 employees having offered their time since the initiative began. Funding for an additional 80,000 trees was provided between 2019 and 2020.
In the United States, record wildfires, storms and other natural disasters have destroyed millions of trees in forests in recent years. PHLY is on a mission to build healthy forests and ecosystems to provide greater security to communities.
PHLY 80K Trees. 
This project also impacts some 1.41 million people living where the mangroves are planted or nearby and has generated benefits in terms of improving the lives of residents in these communities and preventing and mitigating disasters. By ascertaining the numerical value of the outcomes of the mangrove-planting activities, we were able to reaffirm our awareness of the positive social impact of this initiative. Going forward, we will utilize the results of this value assessment to improve our. 
Mangrove Planting Project and continue to undertake these activities together with our stakeholders as we aim to further create value.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


96. 
Preventing Global Warming by Promoting the Development of Clean Energy. 
In order to prevent damage due to climate change from spreading, Tokio Marine Group is examining the possibility of installing and operating renewable energy facilities in Group companies while also providing products and services such as environmental consulting.
1.Offshore Wind Power Generation >>
Offshore wind power generation is expected to be one pillar of measures to increase the ratio of renewable energy in the energy mix, and related laws have already been implemented in Japan.
Since underwriting insurance for a project in the Netherlands in 2013, Tokio Marine & Nichido has been supporting a total of 32 projects in 10 countries and regions including Japan, with total power generation capacity of 11GW. The company is proactively disseminating the know- how gained through underwriting insurance for these projects. At the same time, Tokio Marine &
Nichido is accelerating initiatives in this core business area by expanding the scope of its support to counter natural disaster risk at these facilities and setting up a required structure within the company.
❖ Actions for Preventing Global Warming by Promoting the Development of Clean Energy [Material Issue: Conservation of the Global Environment through Products and Services] 3.Geothermal Power Generation >>
Geothermal power generation has drawn much attention as low-cost renewable energy with the potential for stable power supply. There are high expectations for the application of this form of energy, and the Japanese government has formulated a plan to expand capacity of geothermal power generation facilities three-fold by 2030 compared with current levels. Amid this environment, Tokio Marine & Nichido sells impairment liability coverage specifically for geothermal power generation operators and is contributing to the proliferation of geothermal power.
2.Mega-Solar Package Program >>
With the launch of Japan’s Feed-in Tariff Scheme for Renewable Energy in July 2012, the planning and construction of “mega-solar” large-scale solar power generation facilities has been surging across the country. In order for businesses to stably operate the facilities, it is necessary to evaluate business risks over the medium to long term from a variety of angles and implement required measures. Tokio Marine & Nichido offers an integrated solution for the risks involved in mega-solar projects through its Mega-Solar Package Program launched in July 2012, which consists of 1) risk consulting (natural disaster risk assessment and soil contamination status assessment) and 2) arrangement of property and casualty insurance.
❖ Relation between Written Content and SDGs. 
Relevant goal Relevant target Contribution to the target achievement 7.1 Ensure universal access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services 7.2 Increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix 7.3 Double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency • Insurance package for offshore wind power generation • Mega-Solar Package Program • Impairment liability coverage for geothermal power generation operators 9.4 Upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resourceuse efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes • Insurance package for offshore wind power generation • Mega-Solar Package Program • Impairment liability coverage for geothermal power generation operators • Auto insurance receiving Eco Mark certification. 
Offshore Wind Power Generation in Japan. 
Japan has set the ambitious goal of reducing greenhouse gases by 80% by 2050, thereby proceeding with the challenges of energy conversion and decarbonization to meet this goal. The 5th Strategic. 
Energy Plan approved by the Cabinet on July 3, 2018 states the lofty “3E + S” (Energy security,
Economical efficiency, Environment + Safety) objective and expresses the energy mix the country would like to achieve by 2030. This was the first time for Japan to specify the shift to renewable energy as its main source of power, with the aim of 22% to 24% of power generation to come from renewable energy by 2030, up from 16% in 2017. Offshore wind power generation is expected to be one of the pillars of renewable energy. With the revised Port and Harbor Act of July 2016 and the enforcement of the Act of Promoting Utilization of Sea Areas in Development of Power Generation. 
Facilities Using Maritime Renewable Energy Resources in April 2019, a full-scale offshore wind power generation project is already underway in Japan.
More specifically, after the revision and enforcement of these acts, Japan’s first commercial offshore wind power generation project was launched in February 2020. Following its launch, an additional 10 sea areas have been selected as areas already reaching a certain readiness level, of which four general and other sea areas have been designated as promotion zones for the development of offshore facilities. These have generated even higher expectations for offshore wind power generation.
1.Offshore Wind Power Generation. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


97. 
Total Support for Offshore Wind Power Generation from Construction Phase to Operation Phase. 
Beginning with underwriting insurance for a project in the Netherlands in 2013 that the customer has acquired rights for, Tokio Marine & Nichido has been supporting a total of 32 offshore wind power generation projects in 10 countries and regions including Japan, with total power generation capacity of 11GW. In fiscal 2019, while taking on seven new projects, the company has provided support to the wind power generation industry in Japan by presenting and sharing the know-how it has gained by underwriting these projects, particularly in terms of loss prevention, at international conferences and seminars.
In many offshore wind power generation projects, facilities go into operation individually as they are completed and become operational. Tokio Marine & Nichido’s package exclusively designed for such projects offers seamless total support in order to cover the interface risk associated with the shift to operation. Although this type of insurance package is generally employed in Europe and the United. 
States, the content and clauses of the company’s insurance have been adjusted to fit the legal system and environment of Japan.
A dedicated team was set up to deal with wind power-related projects in 2013, and a task force was established in 2019 to provide company-wide support for the industry. Tokio Marine & Nichido aims to be the industry leader from an insurance perspective for offshore wind power generation projects, an area expected to grow and develop not only in Japan and. 
Asia but across the entire world, and to accelerate initiatives in this core business area to protect the global environment.
Stochastic Assessment of Natural Disasters. 
The risk of a natural disaster occurring such as a typhoon, earthquake or tsunami is significantly different between Japan and Europe. In arranging insurance for wind power generation projects,
Tokio Marine & Nichido Risk Consulting calculates the critical indicator of Probable Maximum Loss (PML) using stochastic methods and conducts risk assessment. In many cases, financing has become an integral part of offshore wind power generation projects as they grow in scale. Lenders also want to understand the risk involved using stochastic assessments that use a fixed recurrence interval such as 475 years for an earthquake and 100 years for a typhoon. This PML calculation has also been adopted in Japan’s first commercial offshore wind power generation project mentioned previously.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


98. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Risk Consulting’s “Risk Assessment of Renewable Energy Facilities” (in Japanese)
With the launch of Japan’s Feed-in Tariff Scheme for Renewable Energy in July 2012, the planning and construction of “mega-solar” large-scale solar power generation facilities has been surging across the country. In order for businesses to stably operate the facilities, it is necessary to evaluate business risks over a medium to long term of 10 to 20 years from a variety of angles, starting from the installation stage, and implement required measures.
In July 2012, Tokio Marine & Nichido began marketing its Mega-Solar Package Program. Through risk consulting and insurance products, the program offers an integrated solution for the risks involved in mega-solar projects.
■Making Use of Evolving Risk Assessment Approaches in Consulting. 
The Mega-Solar Package Program is composed of 1) risk consulting (natural disaster risk assessment and soil contamination status assessment) and 2) arrangement of property and casualty insurance.
In the event of damage from earthquake, tsunami, water, wind, landslide or other natural disasters, mega-solar projects may be forced to review installation expenses or construction period, and business operation following launch may be severely affected.
2.Mega-Solar Package Program Based on natural disaster information and knowledge accumulated over the years in the property and casualty insurance business, the product offers risk consulting services that include a three-stage evaluation of natural disaster hazards at planned mega-solar installation sites and soil contamination status assessment consulting services through means such as site usage history surveys and field investigations. By incorporating such consulting services, mega-solar business operators are able to accurately assess the risks that can threaten business continuity and can effectively carry out necessary investments and measures.
Conducting risk assessments of mega-solar projects has helped us build up extensive know-how, which we are using to provide consulting services for renewable energy facilities for biomass and wind-power generation businesses.
■Arrangement of Appropriate Property and Casualty Insurance at the Mega-Solar Project. 
Installation and Operational Stages. 
As various risks are expected at every stage – from installation to operation – in mega–solar projects, appropriate risk management is achieved by analyzing risk factors that can impact project management and by arranging for insurance against each risk. As a specific example, risks associated with installation work may include damage to a solar power system or temporary installation caused. 
The mega-solar project flow from installation work to operation. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


99. 
General flow of geothermal development (model case of 30,000 kW power output)
Source : Prepared using basic data for investigating purchase price in FY2013 issued by Resources and Energy Agency of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry(in Japanese)(PDF / 1.76MB) ■Commenced Sales of New Impairment Liability Coverage for Geothermal Power Generation. 
Operators. 
Geothermal power generation uses steam from deep under the ground to generate power. It does not emit any CO2, a primary cause of global warming, which has put it in the spotlight as a low-cost renewable energy with the potential for stable power supply. There are high expectations for the application of this form of energy, and the Japanese government has already formulated a plan to expand capacity of geothermal power generation facilities three-fold by 2030 compared with current levels.
Against this backdrop, Tokio Marine & Nichido offers impairment liability coverage specifically for geothermal generation operators. It provides peace of mind to nearby hot spring operators (hot spring union) with regard to geothermal development. This is achieved through compensation for damages if there is a decline in the volume of hot water or a change in hot spring quality in a nearby hot spring area during geothermal development or operation of a geothermal power generation facility. Such damages include the cost of investigation into the cause, which is covered by the geothermal developer, or lost profits on the part of the hot spring operator. Payment of the cost for investigating the cause at the stage when a reduction in hot spring volume or a change in spring quality has been objectively confirmed irrespective of the existence or not of liability on the part of the geothermal developer is a first for Japan.
Tokio Marine & Nichido will continue to contribute to the proliferation of geothermal power through this product going forward.
3.Geothermal Power Generation by an accident or disaster, such as fire or lightning strike; lost profits due to a delay in the launch of operation resulting from the damage; and compensation for damage in case a solar power system has caused an accident during installation or after completion.
Hedging these risks is possible by using erection all risks insurance, delayed start of operations insurance and various forms of liability insurance. Additionally, risks related to facility operation may include damage to a solar power system caused by fire or other accident or disaster, lost profits due to suspension of operation resulting from the damage and compensation for damage as an owner or manager of the facilities. These risks can be hedged by corporate fire insurance and various forms of liability insurance.
Solar power and other forms of renewable energy are indispensable as new energy sources to support the social infrastructure of the future. Based on the role that insurance companies bear in society, Tokio Marine & Nichido will support the smooth diffusion of renewable energy by providing insurance products and risk consulting services and contribute to the development of a sustainable society.
■ Insurance for Output Suppression Control for Mega-Solar Power Generation Operators. 
Output suppression control is a measure in which power companies request power generation operators to suppress power generation output. Ensuring stable power supply requires a consistently steady balance between the power generation volume and consumption volume, and output suppression control is needed when the generation volume exceeds consumption. Tokio Marine &
Nichido provides insurance for mega-solar power generation operators to cover a drop in revenue caused by such suppression. Through the product, the company will contribute to the widespread use of mega-solar power generation.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


100. 
Building Communities for People to Live with Peace of Mind through Environmental Protection Activities. 
Based on the theme “Protecting the Earth,” Tokio Marine Group is implementing local and social contribution activities around the world that help protect the environment and biodiversity. These activities emphasize voluntary engagement by employees and tie-ups with NPOs and other groups.
❖Relation between Written Content and SDGs. 
At Tokio Marine Group, employees and agents volunteer to hold classes of Green Lessons: The. 
Mangrove Story. Tokio Marine & Nichido has co-hosted the Children’s Environmental Award program, an environment-themed illustration and essay contest, while having co-sponsored the Collaborative. 
Afforestation Project with Environmentally Advanced Corporations in Aki City, Kochi Prefecture.
The company also holds the Marunouchi Citizens Environmental Forum, a social and environmental awareness seminar, jointly with Mitsubishi Corporation and is working to build environmental communities.
■ Green Lessons: The Mangrove Story. 
As part of its efforts to raise environmental awareness, since 2005 Tokio Marine Group has provided. 
Green Lessons: The Mangrove Story, an environmental education program for children in elementary and special needs schools. Employee and agent volunteers visit these schools and give lectures on the theme of “prevention of global warming and preservation of biodiversity,” in which they tell stories about mangrove planting. Children participating in these lessons receive flowerpots made from recycled uniforms.
As of March 31, 2020, the Group visited around 860 elementary and special needs schools throughout. 
Japan and provided Green Lessons to 57,310 children. We will continue conducting these lessons nationwide as a place for children, the leaders of tomorrow, to think for themselves about the environment.
Laboratory for the Future (Green tuition fee) (in Japanese) ■Children’s Environmental Award and Iriomote Island Eco Experience Tour. 
Since 2008, Tokio Marine & Nichido and The Asahi Shimbun Company (newspaper) have co-hosted an environment-themed illustration and essay contest, the Children’s Environmental Award program, as one initiative to raise environmental awareness among elementary school children who will take the lead in the future and, in turn, raise awareness among society as a whole. For the 12th Children’s. 
Environmental Award in fiscal 2019, we received 2,154 works from children all over Japan and judged and announced award winners for the year.
Tokio Marine & Nichido (Children’s Environmental Award) (in Japanese) 1. Social Contribution and Awareness-Raising Activities for Environmental Protection in Collaboration with Local Governments in Japan 2.Social Contribution and Awareness-Raising Activities for Environmental Protection by. 
Overseas Group Companies >>
Tokio Marine Group’s overseas companies are promoting environmental initiatives through. 
Earth Day and other events. In Asia, efforts are made to protect forests and water while children with underprivileged backgrounds are invited to environmental awareness-raising tours. We are working to build environmental communities in this way in the different regions of the world.
❖Actions for Building Communities for People to Live with Peace of Mind through. 
Environmental Protection Activities [Material Issue: Local Community and Social Contribution Activities and Awareness-Raising and. 
Educational Activities] 1. Social Contribution and Awareness-Raising Activities for Environmental Protection in. 
Collaboration with Local Governments in Japan >>
At Tokio Marine Group and our Group companies, employees and agents volunteer to hold classes on the environment, illustration and essay contests and eco experience tours. In addition, we are building an environmental community through the Marunouchi Citizens Environmental. 
Forum, a forestry maintenance and environmental awareness seminar.
Relevant goal Relevant target Contribution to the targeet achievement 6.6 Protect and restore water-related ecosystems, including mountains, forests, wetlands, rivers, aquifers and lakes • Green Lessons • Children’s Environmental Award 15.2 Promote the implementation of sustainable management of all types of forests, halt deforestation, restore degraded forests and substantially increase afforestation and reforestation globally • Collaborative afforestation efforts in Kochi Prefecture: Tokio Marine & Nichido’s Forest for the Future • Green Lessons. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


101 ■ Collaborative Afforestation Efforts in Kochi Prefecture: Tokio Marine & Nichido’s Forest for the Future. 
In May 2009, Tokio Marine & Nichido concluded a five-year partners agreement with Kochi Prefecture,
Aki City and the Eastern Kochi Forestry Association to promote afforestation in Aki City under the prefecture’s Collaborative Afforestation Project with Environmentally Advanced Corporations (the five-year agreement was renewed in May 2019).
The forest covered under the agreement has been named “Tokio Marine & Nichido’s Forest for the. 
Future.” Every year, we conduct a volunteer tour for Group employees and agents including their families to experience tree thinning and socially interact with local residents. A total of 30 members participated in the 11th Tree-Thinning Forestry Volunteers tour held in November 2019.
Participants felt that it was a project that taught them the importance of maintaining and protecting forests and the effort that goes into doing so, and that they wanted to expand the initiative with every opportunity as their own responsibility.
■ Marunouchi Citizens Environmental Forum. 
Every year, Tokio Marine & Nichido holds a social and environmental awareness seminar, the. 
Marunouchi Citizens Environmental Forum, jointly with Mitsubishi Corporation. At the 61st forum held in fiscal 2019 at MARUCUBE in the Marunouchi Building in Chiyoda Ward, we invited writer. 
Makoto Shiina to give a lecture under the theme of “Food in Outlying Areas” and talk about the environment from the perspectives of lifestyles and food cultures across the world.
Some 130 people from inside and outside the company attended, with some commenting that they realized again how people’s lives (food, water and sewage water) are linked to the environment.
In Tokio Marine Group, U.S.-based Philadelphia Insurance Companies (PHLY) is promoting environmental activities in different locations that include participation in Earth Day. In addition,
Thai-based Tokio Marine Insurance (Thailand) conducts initiatives to protect forests and water and invites underprivileged children on environmental awareness-raising tours. These and other efforts seek to build environmental communities around the world.
■TEAMPHLY Initiatives. 
U.S.-based PHLY has been encouraging its employees to take part in initiatives to protect the environment in the workplace, home and local community in order to leave behind a beautiful environment for the next generation. TEAMPHLY involves support of environmental protection activities by individuals and communities as well as various efforts to reduce environmental load in the office with the aim of minimizing the environmental footprint in business activities.
The three main activities under TEAMPHLY in 2019 were the reduction of the environmental footprint through business activities, environmental education and awareness-raising activities, and efforts in connection with community outreach. Activities included the purchase of renewable energy certificates to offset CO2 emitted through the use of power in offices throughout the United States.
The company also donated US$134,179 to an environmental NGO in the United States and planted 320,000 trees to protect forests damaged in natural disasters such as brush fires from 2015 to 2019.
TEAMPHLY ■ Participation in Earth Day Events. 
Employees at U.S.-based PHLY conducted various activities to promote Earth Day 2019 as part of. 
TEAMPHLY, an employee-driven environmental awareness program. Employees volunteered their time to collect used plastic bags that they processed into plastic balls of yarn called “plarn.” Plarn is woven into mattresses that are distributed to the homeless. Fifty-six employees took part in Earth. 
Day 2019 and made 60 balls of plarn. The plarn mattresses were put into bags known as “Blessing bags” together with food, light meals, clothing, hygiene products and a source of information so the homeless can get what they need when they need it. The initiative not only helps prevent environmental destruction by plastic bags and protects wild animals, but it also supports the homeless. An additional 15 employees participated in a tree-planting event at a community park in celebration of Earth Day 2019.
2. Social Contribution and Awareness-Raising Activities for Environmental Protection by Overseas Group Companies. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


102. 
Sustainability & ESG Highlights. 
In Japan, the importance of responding to the nursing and health needs of the elderly is increasing due to the low birth rate and aging society. There is also growing demand to create societies in which people in underprivileged circumstances and those with disabilities can live with peace of mind in the community as economies and societies become more sophisticated and globalization progresses. In addition, there are calls for the acceptance, promotion and utilization of diversity in such areas as gender, age and nationality. On a global scale, the reality is that there is growing income disparity, increasing unemployment among youth, poverty and unequal opportunities for education based on gender.
Tokio Marine Group has set “Supporting People” as a core theme in order to take up the challenge of resolving these issues. To this end, we will promote local community and social contribution activities supporting people through the growth of young people and support the elderly, persons with disabilities and athletes as well as the promotion of diversity and inclusion.
Building a Society Based on Health and Longevity to Ensure Peace of Mind. 
Tokio Marine Group provides products and services that anticipate the changing social environment and customer needs by utilizing the solutions offered by respective Group companies, including insurance. The Group will contribute to a society based on good health and longevity through activities to raise awareness about cancer undertaken by employee volunteers in Japan and around the world, activities to spread knowledge about nursing care and offering advice through medical professionals. By promoting these initiatives, Tokio Marine Group will contribute to developing partners who support and bring a virtuous cycle to local communities and society.
Core Theme 3: Supporting People. 
Tokio Marine Group started providing Dementia Support Plan, the industry’s first specialized insurance package for persons suffering from dementia and their families to realize a society in which they can live with peace of mind.
Working with Zenchikyosai, we developed and commenced sales of Te-wo-Tsunagu “Hand-in Hand” Cancer Insurance for persons with intellectual disabilities and their families.
Tokio Marine Group continued to provide support for the Japan Para-Sports Association and Japan Inclusive Football Federation. Ongoing support was also provided for initiatives to learn about, watch and experience sports for persons with disabilities.
Sustainability Materiality (Material Issues) • Technological innovation • Low birth rates and aging societies, and population demographics • Human resources development • Diversity and inclusion • Local community and social contribution activities • Promoting ESG in the provision of products and services. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


103. 
Nurturing Generations Responsible for the Future. 
Tokio Marine Group is promoting social contribution through the establishment of a foundation to nurture generations responsible for the future with the aim of developing youth and promoting sports. In addition, we implement local social contribution activities in conjunction with employees worldwide who volunteer to deliver lesson programs and environmental education as well as with local and social action volunteers and NGOs. We also provide support to charity organizations.
Aiming to Create a Symbiotic Society. 
Tokio Marine Group aims to create a symbiotic society for everyone both socially and economically, irrespective of age, gender or disability. To this end, employees around the world are proactively working on activities that support the elderly, the deaf and blind, athletes and expectant mothers in conjunction with NGOs.
By promoting these initiatives, Tokio Marine Group will contribute to developing partners who support and bring a virtuous cycle to local communities and society.
Value Creation Developing employees and partners who support and bring a virtuous cycle to local communities and society. 
Examples of sustainability approach (Protecting the Earth)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


104. 
Building a Society Based on Health and Longevity to Ensure Peace of Mind. 
Tokio Marine Group provides products and services that anticipate a social environment, which relates to medical treatment, household budget, longevity and health, and changing customer needs by utilizing the solutions offered by respective Group companies, including insurance. The Group will contribute to a society based on good health and longevity through activities to raise awareness about cancer undertaken by employee volunteers in Japan and around the world, activities to spread knowledge about nursing care and offering advice through medical professionals. By promoting these initiatives, Tokio Marine Group will contribute to developing partners who support and bring a virtuous cycle to local communities and society.
❖ Relation between Written Content and SDGs. 
Relevant goal Relevant target Contribution to the targeet achievement 3. Good health and well-being 3.3 End the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and neglected tropical diseases and combat hepatitis, water-borne diseases and other communicable diseases 3.4 Reduce by one third premature mortality from noncommunicable diseases through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being 3.d Strengthen the capacity of all countries for early warning, risk reduction and management of national and global health risks. 
Products and services information. 
Information disclosure/awarenessraising activities. 
Local community and social contribution activities 4. Quality education 4.3 Ensure equal access for all women and men to affordable and quality technical, vocational and tertiary education, including university. 
N Program to support young physicians to gain clinical experience in the United States 1. Comprehensive Insurance Services Related to Medical Treatment, Household Budget,
Longevity and Health >>
Tokio Marine Group provides comprehensive insurance services related to dementia, life insurance, regenerative medicine and nursing care with the aim of creating a world in which people can live with vitality in an era of the 100-year life. In addition, we offer products and services such as Aruku Hoken to promote health.
3. Supporting Customers’ Health and Productivity Management >>
Tokio Marine Group uses the health and productivity management know-how it has gained internally to offer insurance solutions to corporate customers.
2. Initiatives Supporting Customers in Times of Need >>
Tokio Marine Group takes part in initiatives that support government agencies and other institutions around the world from a financial perspective by applying our insurance solutions.
We also support customers in times of need through such means as free consultation by phone when an injury or illness occurs. Other efforts focus on enhancing awareness of saving lives among employees through AED workshops and other courses.
4. Activities to Reduce the Incidence of Cancer and Other Diseases and Support Patients and Their Families >>
Tokio Marine Group teams up with local public organizations to take steps aimed at limiting the incidence of diseases such as cancer among customers and in society. The movement also includes efforts by employee volunteers. We also launched insurance products for persons with disabilities and are selling an investment trust that contributes a portion of the management­ fees to a cancer research facility.
5. R&D in the Health and Medical Fields and Supporting Young Doctor Training >>
Tokio Marine Group provides support to Kyoto University’s Center for iPS Cell Research and Application (CiRA) while handling the joint planning and development of health and productivity management apps using ICT. We also contribute to the development of young doctors responsible for providing­medical care in the future.
[Material Issue: Local Community and Social Contribution Activities and Awareness-Raising and Educational Activities] ❖ Actions for Building a Society Based on Health and Longevity to Ensure Peace of Mind [Material Issue: Products and Services Beneficial for Safety and Security]
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


105 ■ “Dementia Support Plan” and “Pension-Type Nursing Care Coverage Plan with Additional. 
Coverage for Dementia”
In recent years, the number of people in need of nursing care and suffering from dementia has been on the rise in line with an aging society, and these are the issues that many people can readily relate to. Based on a desire to play a part in resolving this social dilemma, Tokio Marine & Nichido is focused on the provision of products and services corresponding to care and dementia.
In January 2019, we launched the industry’s first Dementia Support Plan, an exclusive insurance for dementia patients and their families, with the aim of helping to realize a society for them to live vibrant lives with peace of mind. This product compensates search costs when a dementia patient goes missing and liability in daily life on the part of the sufferer or their family. In addition, in preparation for when a dementia patient goes missing, we provide emergency contact stickers from Safety Net Linkage, an organization that has a proven track record in watch-over support for the elderly, as an added service to the product so they are quickly found and taken into protective custody.
In October 2019, we started providing a pension-type nursing care coverage plan with additional coverage for dementia. Based on our own research, it was clear that care compensation was not sufficiently meeting the expectations of policyholders. While the need for such compensation increases with age, standard private nursing insurance premiums during elderly years become progressively expensive.
To resolve this issue, we designed a product with features that include replacing premiums to be paid when in need of care with fixed-term pension payments. This makes it easier to prepare for prolonged nursing care and provides more affordable premiums. Moreover, with the dementia-assistance package bundled to this product, a wide range of exclusive dementia-related services are available to help people live life with the disease, such as maintaining and enhancing brain functionality through special training.
■Initiatives for Living Benefits. 
Cancer and other serious diseases may require outpatient treatment and rehabilitation for a long time after being discharged from the hospital. Tokio Marine & Nichido Life has been thinking hard about what an insurance company can do to help customers live with a sense of security with their families after falling ill.
In October 2012, the company rolled out an initiative called the Life Insurance Revolution to Protect. 
One’s Living and has since been conveying the importance of living benefits broadly to customers through a message: “We have a life after being released from the hospital.” The initiative evolved into the Life Insurance Revolution Nextage in November 2017, and the company has been carrying out activities to provide optimum safeguards by protecting customers in all domains including life insurance. These safeguards encompass “new protection” in preparation for advancements in medical technology, “asset building” in preparation for old age with expectations of longer lifespans and “prevention and pre-symptomatic health” with the aim of maintaining health and preventing illness.
■Initiative of Hokenbito (True Insurance Professionals) Activities. 
Since its founding, Tokio Marine & Nichido Life has sought to protect as many customers as possible. Under the three initiatives called the “Movement to Protect Customers from Cancer,” “Life. 
Insurance Revolution to Protect One’s Living” and “Life Insurance Revolution Nextage,” the company has engaged in activities that focus on “learning,” “conveying” and “assisting.” In October 2019, the company put a collective name, Hokenbito Activities, to its ongoing initiatives. Specifically, these activities include stepping up efforts to protect customers against social issues that emerge and change with the times, including the need to lengthen “natural life,” “healthy life” and “asset life” in the current era of the 100-year life.
1. Comprehensive Insurance Services Covering Medical Treatment, Household Budget, Longevity and Health. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


106 ■Initiatives for Longevity Risk: Academy of Health and Long Life. 
In February 2012, Tokio Marine & Nichido Life established the Academy of Health and Long Life section of its website to convey to the broadest possible audience the importance of disease prevention and health management in leading a healthy life long into the future.
Tokio Marine & Nichido Life guides visitors through the academy, which includes the Health Promotion Center for self-checking lifestyle-related diseases; the Infirmary for learning about how to read the results of physical examinations; the Retirement Preparations Center for learning about making financial preparations; and the Library for performing searches on diseases and nursing care. In this way, we make sure we provide ample information on lifestyle-related diseases, nursing care and other relevant topics. We provide various information maintained by Tokio Marine & Nichido Life and other companies in Tokio Marine Group, including Tokio Marine & Nichido Medical Service and Tokio Marine. 
Nichido Better Life Service, and business partners.
Tokio Marine & Nichido Life’s Academy of Health and Long Life (in Japanese) ■ Launch of Death Coverage for Life Bundled with Medical Insurance on July 2, 2019 to Prepare for Severe Cancer. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Life has developed death coverage for life bundled with medical insurance (Medical Kit NEO, Medical Kit R and Aruku Hoken) as a response to the need of customers to obtain death coverage for life at lower premiums. This coverage is offered with cut-rate premiums by eliminating the refund upon policy cancellation.
Additionally, to reduce financial burden on patients in an era of costly treatment utilizing cancer genomics, the company has developed a rider for specific cancer to make insurance claims payments in advance. By adding this rider to medical insurance bundled with death coverage, customers can receive the death benefit in advance when diagnosed with severe cancer to prepare for high medical costs that may ensue.
■ Insurance Products to Facilitate the Advancement of Regenerative Medicine. 
At the timing of the enforcement of a new act to ensure the security of regenerative medicine in 2014, Tokio Marine &
Nichido has developed and released new insurance products related to regenerative medicine, namely, insurance for clinical research on regenerative medicine and liability insurance for cell-cultivating companies.
Regenerative medicine regenerates tissue and cells that have deteriorated due to illness or injury, for example, and helps with the recovery of physiological functions. It is expected to improve the quality of life (QOL) of patients, the elderly and people with disabilities and ensure a longer healthy life. In Japan, however, regenerative medicine is still in the process of developing into an industry and practical applications.
To accelerate the process, many players must enter the field. One drawback is the cost and risk involved in regenerative medicine. The solution, we believe, is insurance.
If new players and researchers can leverage insurance as a means to provide compensation for negative effects in people undergoing regenerative medicine treatments, and thus reduce the said cost and risk, there will be a better chance that more players would take on the challenge of developing regenerative medicine into an industry and practical applications. By providing such insurance products, Tokio Marine & Nichido will contribute to the advancement of regenerative medicine in Japan.
■Seminar on Balancing Work with Elder Care: Helping Prevent the Need to Stop Work for Caregiving. 
Amid the rapidly aging society, “leaving full-time employment for elder care” has become a social issue of increasing prevalence. According to the government’s statistics, about 100,000 workers leave their job every year for the reason of elder care, while about 3.46 million people work while taking care of their elderly parents or relatives. For companies, it is an issue of losing the core group of their workforce since people leaving their job are mainly in their 40s and 50s. These caregivers, on the other hand, also bear a significant burden both economically and mentally because they have no idea for how long their days of caregiving will continue.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


107. 
Tokio Marine Nichido Better Life Service provides seminars on balancing work with caregiving for employees of companies by leveraging know-how accumulated in the operation of caregiving services for the elderly. The seminars cover a broad range of topics from basic knowledge to implementing care, long-distance caregiving and dementia care. Also available are seminars for managers in the position of supporting their workers who are juggling both work and caregiving.
Besides conventional in-person seminars, the company also provides online seminars to support more people in balancing their work with caregiving. In addition to the seminars, Tokio Marine. 
Nichido Better Life Service provides a menu that also covers how to create a handbook balancing work and caregiving that compiles information on caregiving as well as telephone consultation on caregiving and consultation through industrial care managers.
■ Pandemic Derivatives for the World Bank. 
In July 2017, Tokio Marine & Nichido joined in the “Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility (PEF)” launched by the World Bank as an international initiative to manage crises caused by infectious diseases. Through the underwriting of pandemic derivatives, we will support efforts by public-private partnerships to contain internationally threatening infectious diseases and contribute to the creation of a safe, secure and sustainable future.
Background to the Establishment of the Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility. 
The Japanese government brought up the issue of international health when it was host country for the G7 Ise-Shima Summit in May 2016. With the cooperation of the World Bank and World. 
Health Organization (WHO), PEF was launched by the World Bank as a new financial mechanism for responding to public health crises that drew on lessons learned with the Ebola virus. The Japanese government was the first in the world to declare that it would provide financial assistance to PEF and called for the cooperation of other countries.
2. Initiatives Supporting Customers in Times of Need *The Japanese government announced that it would contribute USD50 million over three years prior to the meeting of G7 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors in May 2016.
Overview of the Program. 
The PEF is the world’s first financing mechanism for swiftly and smoothly providing financial assistance in the event that a pandemic occurs or expands in developing countries, and is funded by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) of the World Bank Group through derivatives transactions between IBRD and insurance companies and the issuance of pandemic bonds to investors. In the case where data released by WHO, such as the number of deaths, rate of increase in the number of deaths and the number of affected countries, reach predetermined levels that have been established as criteria for funding assistance, Tokio Marine & Nichido will pay a preset amount to IBRD.
■Medical Assist : Providing 24/7 Telephone Support for Customers Seeking Advice on Illness or Injury. 
Medical Assist is a free health and healthcare consultation service that supports the health of policyholders and insurees of Tokio Marine & Nichido and Tokio Marine & Nichido Life, including their families. Assistance is provided via telephone 24 hours a day, seven days a week, including advice on everyday physical accidents, methods for handling emergencies such as sudden illnesses or injuries, information about hospitals, clinics and other medical facilities that examine patients on holidays or late at night, consultation with specialists in a range of more than 30 medical examination fields (by appointment only), and arrangements for transfer to other hospitals on behalf of patients. Such concerns are addressed by experienced and knowledgeable healthcare professionals including emergency medical specialists who take leading roles in emergency medical institutions, medical specialists qualified as university professors or assistant professors, and nurses with a wealth of clinical experience. Nurses make the initial response to customer inquiries, and depending on the case, emergency medical specialists and other medical staff address the issue thereafter as necessary.
For example, in the case of providing consultation about a child stung by a bee, an inquiry is first. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


108 ■In Support of Customers’ Health and Productivity Management. 
As Japan’s labor force shrinks, managing employee health and creating a good working environment have become important management issues in order to ensure sustainable corporate growth. Tokio. 
Marine Group has formulated a philosophy and policy with employee health positioned as a core theme for management, and related issues are being addressed. We were selected as a “Health &
Productivity Stock” for the fifth consecutive year in recognition of these efforts. We support the promotion of corporate health and productivity through a range of services in order to deliver the know-how we have gained from these initiatives to customers.
In the Tokio Marine Group Wellness Charter, we declare that we will contribute to the resolution of social issues and realization of a healthier and more prosperous future by supporting health promotion efforts of our customers, communities and society as a whole.
<Initiatives of Tokio Marine & Nichido>
Tokio Marine & Nichido works to raise awareness for health and productivity management and supports relevant efforts of local companies by issuing booklets compiling example initiatives of companies engaging in health and productivity management and hosting related seminars across Japan. The company also provides support to companies seeking to obtain certification as a Health & Productivity Management Organization. With the company’s support, a number of corporate customers and agents have successfully received the certification. Additionally, Tokio. 
Marine & Nichido suggests the use of an artificial intelligence (AI) health app provided by Link &
Communication Inc., a capital and business alliance partner of Tokio Marine Holdings, to its corporate customers to support their employee health management.
<Initiatives of Tokio Marine & Nichido Medical Service (TMS)>
TMS has doctors and other healthcare professionals in-house and carries out business in the medical and health fields. As a total healthcare consulting company, TMS offers health promotion measures to increase health knowledge of corporate customers’ employees and encourage their behavior change in addition to a 24/7 telephone health consultation service and a mental health support service. In fiscal 2020, TMS will both enhance the lineup of industrial health-related services and expand the area coverage in order to provide services across Japan to help corporate customers promote health and productivity management from an industrial health perspective.
3. Supporting Customers’ Health and Productivity Management made to the caller about symptoms the child is showing. Then, the caller will be advised whether to seek emergency medical care, while receiving instructions on first aid best suited for the symptoms.
Medical Assist: Tokio Marine & Nichido Life (in Japanese) ■Supporting the Provision of Japanese-Language Medical Services in the United States. 
The Japanese Medical Practice outpatient clinic operated by Mount Sinai Beth Israel in New York City with donations from Tokio Marine & Nichido has been providing medical services in Japanese since 1990. At the event celebrating the 100th anniversary of the Japanese American Association of New. 
York held in fiscal 2009, the Japanese Medical Practice outpatient clinic offered medical consultation services and held medical seminars for elderly Japanese-American people living in New York. This clinic plays a major role in providing medical services to the local Japanese community and is highly regarded by the Japanese Consulate General in New York as a medical institution providing services to Japanese people.
■AED & Basic Life-Saving Workshop to Build a Society That Can Practice Life-Saving Skills. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido provides a workshop to practice using Automated External Defibrillators (AEDs) and to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). More than 6,000 employees from. 
Tokio Marine Group have attended the workshop by the end of fiscal 2019. Through the workshop, participants have realized that they do not have to be an expert to perform CPR and gained enough confidence to take action rather than just standing by in case of an emergency.
In cooperation with a fire station, Tokio Marine & Nichido Systems and Tokio Marine & Nichido. 
Adjusting Services provided a workshop to learn standard first aid. Lecturers from the fire station taught about 64 employees from the two companies how to perform CPR and use AEDs.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


109. 
Tokio Marine Group teams up with local public organizations to take steps aimed at limiting the incidence of diseases such as cancer among customers and in society. The movement also includes efforts by employee volunteers. Overseas, we conduct cancer awareness-raising activities and provide support for cancer sufferers through employee volunteers as well. We also launched an investment trust that contributes a portion of the management fees to cancer research facilities.
■ Movement to Protect Customers from Cancer. 
Background of the Initiative. 
As part of efforts to fulfill its social mission as an insurance company providing cancer insurance,
Tokio Marine & Nichido Life has been supporting the Pink Ribbon Movement since March 2005.
Extending these activities, we have decided to steadily offer comprehensive solutions for customers’ concerns. As a first step, upon the release of an insurance product to support cancer treatment in September 2007, we rolled out a company-wide, ongoing and perpetual initiative called the. 
Movement to Protect Customers from Cancer.
Basic Policy. 
In Japan, cancer is considered a national disease and is a source of much grief. The fact has fueled our desire to protect our customers from cancer to help ease the suffering of cancer patients and to assist their families going through the ordeal. For us, the social role of an insurance company now extends beyond delivering financial reassurance in terms of insurance payments to working to prevent cancer and providing mental support. Accordingly, Tokio Marine & Nichido Life has launched the Movement to Protect Customers from Cancer. The movement consists of the following three steps: (1) Getting to know cancer; (2) Talking about cancer; and (3) Helping with cancer countermeasures.
Collaboration with Local Authorities. 
An urgent task is to improve cancer examination rates in order to detect the disease at an early stage.
However, the checkup rate is lower than 50% targeted by the government and local authorities.
Based on the belief that joint action with as many people as possible is indispensable for improving the situation, Tokio Marine Group has signed agreements with 44 prefectural bodies and 18 cities (as of March 31, 2019) and has been actively promoting collaboration with them to call more attention to cancer and raise examination rates.
■ Support for Mental Health Management. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Medical Service offers the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to support the mental health management of companies. Besides conducting stress tests as required under the Industrial Safety and Health Law, EAP provides a comprehensive menu of services by a team of experts including psychiatrists, clinical psychotherapists and personnel and labor consultants. These services range from individual follow-up for employees based on the results of employee stress checks to providing supportive care during a leave of absence or when returning to work, preventing recurrence, analyzing stress level tendencies in organizations and consulting on how to create a mental health framework.
As mental health measures for employees, many companies have adopted the support services of Tokio Marine & Nichido Medical Service’s expert team. The purpose is to improve their working environment both for prevention and early detection of mental illness caused by workplace harassment and other factors as well as for increasing employee engagement. EAP is currently being used by more than 700,000 employees. The company will continue to offer this program to everyone needing this type of support to assist them in maintaining better mental health.
Tokio Marine & Nichido Medical Service TMS NAVIGATOR (in Japanese) 4. Activities to Reduce the Incidence of Cancer and Other Diseases and Support Patients and Their Families * Using insight and knowledge gained through an ongoing joint research project since 2014 with the Healthcare Data Science Research Unit of the Institute for Future Initiatives (formerly the Policy Alternatives Research Institute), The University of Tokyo <Initiatives of Tokio Marine & Nichido Risk Consulting (TRC)>
In enforcing health and productivity management more effectively within a company, it is crucial that the company and its health insurance association make collaborative efforts to promote health measures while appropriately capturing employees’ health issues. TRC analyzes various data held by companies and health insurance associations, including health checkup results, prescriptions data and health measure outcomes. The company then performs quantitative evaluation* of the relationship between the data and medical expenses or health inhibiting factors to develop highly effective health promotion measures. By doing so, TRC supports the reduction of health-related risks and improvement of productivity (such as lower presenteeism). TRC also provides support for the establishment of various corporate systems essential for promoting health and productivity management and for implementation of health promotion measures effective to contend with a variety of health-related issues.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


110. 
In October 2009, Tokio Marine & Nichido Life and Tokio Marine & Nichido became promoting partners for Corporate Actions for Cancer Checkups, a national project commissioned by the Ministry of. 
Health, Labour and Welfare to raise the cancer examination rate to more than 50% through joint efforts by the government and companies. By taking part in this public-private partnership, we intend to contribute to the improvement of the cancer examination rate in Japan.
Nationwide Regional Activities. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Life encourages cancer education activities in its daily sales operations with the aim of disseminating cancer knowledge and increasing cancer examination rates. In addition to periodic cancer-related study sessions, exchange meetings and seminars for agents/consignees at branch offices across the country, we hold a national conference of employees and agent/consignee representatives who are actively and responsibly engaged in these cancer awareness efforts.
The 13th conference scheduled in 2019 was canceled as we placed top priority on helping customers following Typhoon Hagibis and other natural disasters. Subsequently, videos of the planned lectures by cancer patients and healthcare professionals and a panel discussion on the meaning of our disseminating information to customers were provided online to extend knowledge and foster a strong sense of mission concerning cancer awareness.
Agreement with the Shizuoka Cancer Center. 
In 2007, Tokio Marine & Nichido Life and Tokio Marine &
Nichido Medical Service (TMS) concluded a comprehensive agreement on joint research into the best ways to provide consultation, support and information regarding the treatment of cancer with the Shizuoka Cancer Center. This joint research program has focused on such areas as jointly developing tools to communicate in plain language the importance of preventive medicine and medical checkups as well as knowledge on cancer.
Promoting the Pink Ribbon Movement. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Life has been promoting the Pink Ribbon Campaign in support of J.POSH, an NPO engaged in pink ribbon movements for breast cancer awareness in Japan, to convey the importance of medical exams and early detection of breast cancer. Tokio Marine Group employees, led by Tokio Marine & Nichido Life employees, have continued to hold street campaigns nationwide and hand out awareness leaflets*­since 2005.
Providing Encouragement to Cancer Patients by Making Terry Cloth Caps. 
Since 2009, Tokio Marine & Nichido Life has joined initiatives undertaken by the Iwate Hospice. 
Association, a citizens’ group in Morioka City, Iwate Prefecture, to support cancer patients and their families and help them gain courage to fight against the disease. The company has been making terry cloth caps for patients undergoing anticancer drug treatment.
Every year, participants from Tokio Marine & Nichido Life and other Tokio Marine Group companies and their families stitch the caps together and donate more than 1,000 caps as Christmas presents to cancer hospitals nationwide through the Iwate. 
Hospice Association.
Education and Childcare Support for Orphans. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Life established a fund in 2016 to financially support children who have lost one or both parents due to illness, including cancer, and offers benefit-type scholarships to university students and others and educational materials to children preschool age and under with the cooperation of the Japan Philanthropic Association. Benefit-type scholarships of 300,000 yen per year are provided to students who have entered university or an equivalent educational institute. The. 
Kodomo Challenge series of educational materials developed by Benesse Corporation is sent free of charge every month to children in kindergarten and 30,000 yen is granted to celebrate advancing to the next grade and upon entering elementary school.
Donation to Organizations Helping Children with Incurable Diseases and Elderly People. 
Donations from Tokio Marine & Nichido Life’s employees and agents are used to support activities of organizations helping children undergoing medical treatment and elderly people. Employees of the company also provide support to the activities of these organizations through participation and. 
Shizuoka Cancer Center * The certified NPO J.POSH collaborates with medical institutions nationwide on the Japan Mammography Sunday (J.M.S) initiative to create an environment enabling women who are busy on weekdays to have mammograms on the third Sunday in October. Tokio Marine & Nichido Life also supports this initiative and hands out a list of available medical institutions.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


111 other means. Donations have been made to the following organizations since fiscal 2016.
• NPO CliniClowns Association • NPO The Support Network for NANBYO Children of Japan • NPO Dementia Friendship Club. 
Initiating Sales of Cancer Insurance for Persons with Disabilities. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido is working with Zenchikyosai, an insurance company specialized in insurance for persons with intellectual disabilities, to realize a society in which they can live with peace of mind.
As part of this effort, two insurance products bundled with Tokio Marine & Nichido’s personal liability coverage, namely Zenchi Anshin Insurance and Zenchi Children’s Accident Insurance, were released in. 
January 2018. While promoting this cooperative effort, the two companies came to realize that there was a strong need for cancer insurance among persons with intellectual disabilities. Accordingly, we jointly developed a cancer insurance product, Te-wo-Tsunagu (“Hand in Hand”) Cancer Insurance, for them and their families and started its sales in January 2020.
A cancer insurance product usually requires customers to notify their health conditions, including a history of cancer incidence, upon enrollment. The new product has eliminated the process of notifying intellectual disability treatment, thus making it easier to subscribe to. The product also satisfies the needs of family members by bundling with a rider to cover expenses to use an adult guardianship system for a person with intellectual disabilities as an adult ward when a family member develops serious (Stage IV) cancer. Through these products, Tokio Marine & Nichido intends to contribute to the realization of a society for everyone to live with peace of mind.
■Providing Japan’s First Fund Specialized for Cancer Treatment. 
As a new initiative to contribute to the achievement of the SDGs, in July 2019 we established the. 
Tokio Marine Investment Trust to Fight Cancer (without currency hedging)/(with currency hedging) for investment in companies with a high probability of making a significant contribution to the resolution of cancer, a major social issue.
The fund aims to ensure return through investment in companies with strengths in the cancer treatment field (diagnostic examination, profiling, medical technology and pharmaceuticals) where there are expectations of significant growth and progress due to increasingly aging societies worldwide and advancements in genetic analysis technology. Another aim is to contribute to the achievement of Goal 3 of the 17 SDGs, namely “Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages.” 5. R&D in the Health and Medical Fields and Supporting Young Doctor Training. 
Tokio Marine Group provides support to Kyoto University’s Center for iPS Cell Research and. 
Application (CiRA), while handling the joint planning and development of health and productivity management apps using ICT. We also contribute to the development of young doctors responsible for providing medical care in the future.
■Supporting and Collaborating with the Center for iPS Cell Research and Application (CiRA),
Kyoto University. 
In January 2015, Tokio Marine & Nichido donated a total of 100 million yen to Kyoto University’s iPS Cell Research Fund, covering a five-year period. In addition, the company called for donations to the fund from employees of Tokio Marine Group companies and other individuals and made an additional donation exceeding 1.9 million yen in fiscal 2019.
Tokio Marine & Nichido is also collaborating with a project called the iPS Cell Stock for Regenerative Medicine to stockpile induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells for medical use, which was transferred from CiRA to CiRA Foundation (CiRAF) also in Kyoto University in April 2020. The project involves collecting blood from donors having a special type of human leukocyte antigens (HLAs), which is thought to cause less immune rejection. In August 2016, in addition to Kyoto University Hospital, blood collection also started at the medical corporate foundation Kaijo Building Clinic, a tie-up medical institution of Tokio Marine. 
Group. The provision of iPS cells for regenerative medicine started in August 2015, and the stock has grown to cover about 40% of people in Japan as of 2020. Current efforts include promoting a plan to provide iPS cells with reduced risk of immune rejection by using genome editing technology and. 
In addition to indirect contribution through investment in companies, we plan to make direct contribution by donating a portion of the management fees to National Cancer Center Japan, Japan. 
Cancer Society and other cancer research institutes.
Such direct assistance makes it possible to help organizations that find it difficult to get support through investment as well as to enable continued support through the management fees that are paid regularly every year.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


112 conducting technology development with the goal of enabling the provision of iPS cells of patients themselves at the cost of around 1 million yen by 2025.
CiRA is working on research every day to enable the practical application of iPS cell technology.
Through our donations to the research fund, we hope to ease the suffering of people with intractable diseases and injuries and contribute to the establishment of a research environment that can stably obtain a pool of excellent researchers and research supporters and to the further advancement of research in this area. At the same time, we will continue to provide support to health, medical and other related fields to deliver safety and security in the form of risk management, including insurance, and through collaboration among Group companies.
■ Joint Planning and Development Support for Karada no Kimochi of docomo Healthcare (Currently, NTT DOCOMO, INC.)
Tokio Marine & Nichido conducted joint planning and development support for the cash benefit for the medical treatment portion of Karada no Kimochi (“How my body feels”) service provided by docomo Healthcare,
Inc. (currently, NTT DOCOMO, INC.) from June 2013. Specifically, when the input data uncovers a change in body condition, the customer is encouraged to see a doctor and receives a cash benefit when medical advice and treatment are received from a qualified medical professional.
In this way, it provides support that ensures a sense of security. The service has a high level of social significance because of its link to prevention and early detection of breast cancer and uterine cancer, two serious illnesses affecting women for which early detection efforts are lagging behind in Japan.
This service was recognized by the Celent Model Insurer Asia Awards 2014*1 by Celent, a U.S. research and consulting firm specialized in the financial field. It also received an excellent award in the Nihon. 
Service Award Fiscal 2015*2 hosted by the Service Productivity & Innovation for Growth Council.
docomo Healthcare: Karada no Kimochi (in Japanese) ■ N Program to Support Young Physicians to Gain Clinical Experience in the United States. 
In collaboration with Mount Sinai Beth Israel, Tokio Marine & Nichido has been offering the N Program since 1991. This is a medical residency program to promote exchange between the two countries in the medical field by dispatching every year young Japanese doctors with the desire to gain clinical experience in the United States.
In general, people wishing to experience clinical training in the United States are selected by way of a nationwide recruitment system. The N Program is handled differently, however, and has become an invaluable program for young Japanese doctors who want to undergo clinical training at an educational hospital in the United States. The N Program has made remarkable progress thanks to the cooperation of teachers at U.S. medical institutions and the efforts of residents who participated as trainee physicians. To date, the total number of trainees and graduates of this program has grown to over 190.
N Program (in Japanese) *1 The Celent Model Insurer Asia Awards are the Asia category of the Celent Model Insurer Awards, an internationally high profile award program in the insurance industry. Every year, it recognizes insurers for their effective use of information technology in insurance. *2 The Nihon Service Award is the first award program in Japan to evaluate diverse services across different industries by using common evaluation criteria and recognize excellent services.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


113. 
Nurturing Generations Responsible for the Future. 
Tokio Marine Group is promoting social contribution through the establishment of foundations to nurture generations responsible for the future with the aim of developing youth and promoting sports. In addition, we implement local social contribution activities in conjunction with employees worldwide who volunteer to deliver lesson programs and environmental education as well as with local and social action volunteers and NGOs. We also provide support to charity organizations.
Tokio Marine & Nichido promotes social contribution activities through three foundations with such aims as helping young people grow, encouraging international cultural exchange and promoting sports in the local community.
■ Social Contribution Activities through Foundations. 
Tokio Marine Kagami Memorial Foundation was established in 1939 and initiated a scholarship program in 1941. The foundation provides scholarships to students at Japanese universities and graduate school exchange students from ASEAN nations and assists academic studies by researchers.
Tokio Marine & Nichido Educational Development Fund, established in 1984, offers assistance to elementary school and junior high school children orphaned through traffic accidents and for educational research by educators.
The Tokio Marine Sports Foundation was established in 1937 with the aim of promoting sports activities among the public to help bring bright and enriched lives to the people of Japan. The two facilities owned by the foundation, Nasu Sports Park and Toda Boathouse (a water sports facility), are used by a wide range of groups from young children to senior citizens. The foundation is also involved in local support exchange events planned by members of Tokio Marine & Nichido’s sports teams and charity concerts given by the company’s orchestra.
❖Relation between Written Content and SDGs. 
Relevant goal Relevant target Contribution to the target achievement 4.1 Ensure that all girls and boys complete free, equitable and quality primary and secondary education 4.6 Ensure that all youth and a substantial proportion of adults, both men and women, achieve literacy and numeracy • Ashinaga Charity & Walk • Participating in Room to Read’s educational support program in developing countries • Social contribution activities to nurture youth through foundations • Kagami Memorial Foundation, Educational Development Fund and Sports Foundation • Development of an original education program “Group Work on Managing Risks and Opportunities” 8.6 Substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training • Development of an original education program “Group Work on Managing Risks and Opportunities” • Participating in Room to Read’s educational support program in developing countries 1. Nurturing Future Generations, Encouraging International Exchange and Promoting. 
Sports in Local Communities through Foundations >>
Tokio Marine & Nichido promotes social contribution activities through three foundations with such aims as helping young people grow, encouraging international cultural exchange and promoting sports in the local community.
2. Activities for Regional Revitalization, Sharing Knowledge on Insurance, Environmental. 
Protection and Raising Awareness for Disaster Prevention >>
Leveraging its know-how accumulated in risk management, Tokio Marine Group encourages children who will lead the next generation to think about local industries, countering risk by means of insurance, environmental issues and disaster preparedness through our awarenessraising and other programs. Our Group company in China also provides Disaster Prevention. 
Lessons in the country.
4. Promoting Sports, Supporting Traffic Accident Orphans and Educating Future. 
Generations through Donations and Other Support >> Tokio Marine Group works to promote sports, support orphans of traffic accidents and educate youth in different countries around the world through our backing of international and domestic. 
NGOs and charity organizations.
❖ Actions for Nurturing Generations Responsible for the Future [Material Issue: Local Community and Social Contribution Activities and Awareness-Raising and. 
Educational Activities] 3. Activities for Supporting Orphans in Cooperation with NGOs >> Through its employee volunteers, Tokio Marine Group supports orphans and cooperates with the proliferation of Child Line together with educational NGOs like Ashinaga.
1. Nurturing Future Generations, Encouraging International Exchange and Promoting Sports in Local Communities through Foundations. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


114. 
We encourage children who will take the lead in the next generation to think about environmental issues and disaster preparedness through our lesson programs delivered to schools and other environmental initiatives.
■ Holding Aerospace Classes with the Local Community to Nurture People Interested in Aerospace. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido aims to contribute to the advancement of local economies and society by actively participating in regional revitalization efforts.
Going forward, further growth is expected in the Tokai region, where the aerospace industry is concentrated.
Tokio Marine & Nichido has been running aerospace classes for elementary and junior high school students that provide education and include experiments related to aerospace. The idea behind the initiative is a desire to increase the opportunity for children to become interested in aerospace since it is the younger generation who will bear responsibility for the future of the aerospace industry.
2. Activities for Regional Revitalization, Sharing Knowledge on Insurance, Environmental Protection and Raising Awareness for Disaster Prevention. 
The project makes use of know-how accumulated in risk management relating to the aerospace industry and of the company’s own industry-government-academia network built on ties with Aichi. 
Prefecture and Nagoya University, and has been made possible owing to its community-based work that includes contribution to human resources development.
In August 2019, an aerospace class was held at the Gifu-Kakamigahara Air and Space Museum, which let a total of 60 elementary and junior high school students have a simulated experience of the training and missions of astronauts. By providing a venue to generate more aerospace-related human resources in the Tokai region, the classes are expected to contribute to the advancement of Japan’s aerospace industry.
■ “Group Work on Managing Risks and Opportunities”: Career Development Program for Junior High and High School Students. 
Tokio Marine Group has been contributing to the promotion of career education mainly for junior high and high school students by providing its own career education program, “Group Work on Managing Risks and Opportunities,” which was developed jointly with universities, NPOs and educators. In the program consisting of card games and teamwork activities, students become owners of a bakery and have to think about ways to operate the bakery successfully over a long period, including how to use insurance. The lesson simulates responses to various risks associated with owning a business, enabling the students to discover issues for themselves and solve them collaboratively. From fiscal 2017, the program is being expanded throughout Japan, with a cumulative total of 1,500 students receiving career education to date.
■ Programs for Children (Delivery of Lesson Programs and Environmental Education)
We encourage children who will take the lead in the next generation to think about environmental issues and disaster preparedness through our lesson programs delivered to schools and other environmental initiatives.
Disaster Prevention Lessons. 
Green Lessons: The Mangrove Story. 
Children’s Environmental Award and Iriomote Island Eco Experience Tour. 
Overview and Activities of Each Foundation. 
Tokio Marine Kagami Memorial Foundation scholarships for exchange students from ASEAN nations (in Japanese)
Tokio Marine & Nichido Educational Development Fund (in Japanese)
The Tokio Marine Sports Foundation youth exchange project through sports activities (in Japanese)
Foundation Name Summary Activities in Fiscal 2019. 
Tokio Marine Kagami Memorial Foundation • Provides scholarships to students at Japanese universities and graduate school exchange students from ASEAN nations • Provides academic research aid and earthquake research aid to young social science researchers. 
Scholarships awarded: 151 Research assistance: 9 projects. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Educational Development Fund. 
Provides assistance for educators and to children orphaned through traffic accidents. 
Financial assistance for education and research: 134 Scholarships for children orphaned through traffic accidents : 110. 
The Tokio Marine Sports Foundation Promotes sports activities in local communities. 
Number of persons using Nasu Sports Park: 44,007 Number of persons using Toda Boathouse: 4,941. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


115 ■Disaster Education Support for Children in China. 
Disaster Prevention Lessons in China. 
In 2016, Disaster Prevention Lessons for elementary and junior high school students were officially launched in China by The Tokio Marine &
Nichido Fire Insurance Company (China) Limited (TMNCH). It is the first case that Tokio Marine & Nichido’s disaster awareness-raising program is implemented overseas and represents the synergy generated by a sustainability project within Tokio Marine Group. Disaster Prevention. 
Lessons in China are an initiative that involves direct participation of. 
TMNCH employees and fully leverages the experience accumulated over the 10 years since the company’s founding to complement insufficient disaster prevention education at schools, raise local community awareness for disaster prevention and to fulfill its social responsibility. TMNCH has developed its own education materials that take into account the characteristics of disasters in China, and by incorporating such original content, made these lessons appealing to children to encourage their learning.
The initiative started just three years ago, but all five branches of TMNCH are already participating in the activity, with 37 employees, representing one-tenth of all employees, having received training as volunteer lecturers. As of the end of fiscal 2019, more than 1,600 children have received the lessons at 18 schools in nine provinces and cities (32 administrative divisions and municipalities) in China.

Educational Assistance for Children of Migrant Workers in China. 
Since 2009, Tokio Marine Group has been collaborating with the. 
All-China Youth Federation to support children of migrant workers (children living in farming villages while their parents work in the city). We have established support facilities in over 300 locations throughout China, and Group employees engage in various volunteer activities every year.
In June 2019, 14 employees, including Kunio Ishihara, advisor at Tokio. 
Marine & Nichido, undertook volunteer efforts at an elementary school in Liupanshui City, Guizhou Province, in China. It was a meaningful classroom interchange that included Disaster Prevention Lessons on the themes of firefighting and safety during school summer holidays with 22 children and was highly praised by a local Communist. 
Youth League.
Through its employee volunteers, Tokio Marine Group supports orphans and cooperates with the proliferation of Child Line together with educational NGOs like Ashinaga.
■Ashinaga Charity & Walk. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido and Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance. 
Company jointly held a charity walk event, Ashinaga Charity & Walk. From Tokio Marine & Nichido, a total of 1,700 employees and their families participated in this event at 72 venues across the country. A portion of their participation fees was used to support orphans as described below.
(1) Donated to Ashinaga to be used for the following purposes to support orphans: • Construction and operation of Tohoku Rainbow House, a healing space for children orphaned by the. 
Great East Japan Earthquake •Scholarship loans for orphans who want to attend high school, university, junior college or other educational institution •­Support for Ashinaga’s scholarships for international students (2) Allocated as financial assistance to orphans living in prefectures affected by the Great East Japan. 
Earthquake through donations to orphan support funds ■Supporting Child Line Support Center Japan. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido has been inviting the specified NPO. 
Child Line Support Center Japan to give a lecture about the organization’s activities every year since 2012. They discuss some of the anxieties and other issues brought up by youths through Child Line, a dedicated phone line that children can call free of charge from anywhere in Japan. After this, Tokio. 
Marine Group employees serve as volunteers for delivering cards inscribed with the Child Line telephone number to children. Employees from Tokio Marine Asset Management, Tokio Marine Business Support, Tokio. 
Marine & Nichido Communications and Tokio Marine & Nichido Human Resources Academy also volunteer for sending the cards to the children.
Child Line (in Japanese) 3. Activities for Supporting Orphans in Cooperation with NGOs. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


116 ■Participating in Room to Read’s Educational Support Program in Developing Countries. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido has participated in the educational support effort led by the international NGO Room to Read since fiscal 2010. Over the nine years from fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2019, the company donated about US$100,000 annually, providing educational support for a total of about 2,550 girls to help them attain independence in the future and offering a study environment for children by opening 23 reading rooms in India, Bangladesh and Vietnam.
For girls not attending school for economic reasons or because they are tied to household duties as a result of their parents’ lack of understanding, the program offers financial aid for tuition fees and endeavors to convey the importance of education to their families through home visits. These efforts have allowed girls to continue their education, with many achieving excellent performance in their schoolwork to make their dreams a reality.
India, Bangladesh and Vietnam are three mangrove planting regions covered under the company’s ongoing Mangrove Planting Project initiated in 1999. Through the Mangrove Planting Project and educational support program, Tokio Marine & Nichido thus carries out the dual-purpose global social contribution activities of nurturing both trees and people.
International NGO Room to Read. 
The amount of 20 yen donated from every lunch is equal to one school meal in developing countries.
Thus, the name “TABLE FOR TWO” came from the idea that each of us in a developed country shares a table with one child in a developing country. We are having lunch together, beyond time and space.
TABLE FOR TWO. 
Tokio Marine Group works to promote sports, support orphans of traffic accidents and educate youth in different countries around the world through our backing of international and domestic NGOs and charity organizations.
■Cooperating with the NPO Association for Assistance to Children Orphaned in Traffic Accidents. 
Nisshin Fire has continued to support children who have lost one or both of their parents in traffic accidents through the NPO Association for Assistance to Children Orphaned in Traffic Accidents since 2008. Going forward, the company will continue supporting children orphaned in traffic accidents through this NPO.
■Serving as a Special Sponsor of the JOC Junior Olympic Cup Swimming Tournament. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido started providing support to the Japan Swimming Federation as one of the initiatives undertaken to commemorate its 110th anniversary in 1989. Specific efforts include serving as a special sponsor of the National JOC Junior Olympic Cup. 
Swimming Tournament held twice a year and providing support for the costs of attending overseas competitions and training camps for Junior Olympic athletes. The company contributes to the healthy development of young people who will represent the future by promoting swimming.
Go! Go! Junior Swimmers! (in Japanese)
Swimming Support Site “Forever, with Swimming” (in Japanese) ■Participating in the TABLE FOR TWO Charity Initiative Aimed at Achieving an Optimal Food. 
Balance in the World. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido participates in the TABLE FOR TWO initiative and has been offering a TABLE. 
FOR TWO menu in the employee cafeteria at its head office. TABLE FOR TWO is an initiative to donate a part (usually 20 yen) of the price of a lunch offered in a company cafeteria or other foodstuffs to school meal programs in developing countries. Of the total world population of almost seven billion, one billion people suffer from hunger while another two billion are experiencing obesity and other diet-linked, lifestyle-related diseases. To eliminate this serious food imbalance, the TABLE FOR TWO initiative was launched in Japan in fall 2007.
4. Promoting Sports, Supporting Traffic Accident Orphans and Educating Future Generations through Donations and Other Support. 
Location Employee cafeteria at the head office. 
Method. 
Purchasing a 580-yen TABLE FOR TWO lunch (680-800 kcal) automatically donates 20 yen through the NPO TABLE FOR TWO International, which will be used to buy school meals for children in developing countries. 
Overview of TABLE FOR TWO in Tokio Marine & Nichido. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


117. 
Aiming to Create a Symbiotic Society. 
Tokio Marine Group aims to create a symbiotic society for everyone both socially and economically, irrespective of age, gender or disability. To this end, employees around the world are proactively working on activities that support the elderly, the deaf and blind, athletes and expectant mothers in conjunction with NGOs. In view of rising societal awareness of matters affecting sexual minorities, we have been re-evaluating our products.
1. Social Contribution Activities for the Elderly and Awareness-Raising Activities for. 
Dementia­>>
Tokio Marine Group undertakes social contribution activities for the elderly and awareness- raising activities for persons suffering from dementia as part of volunteer activities supporting the safety and security of the local community and families.
3. Re-evaluating Products to better serve LGBT people­>>
Tokio Marine & Nichido respects the diverse family structures of customers and is working in a phased manner to treat same-sex partners in the definition of “spouse” for products that provide coverage for families and married couples.
2. Supporting Deaf and Blind Persons and Sports for the Disabled­>>
Tokio Marine & Nichido supports deaf and blind persons in conjunction with the Japan Deafblind. 
Association and supports sports for disabled persons through the Japanese Para-Sports. 
Association, Japan Inclusive Football Federation and Special Olympics Nippon Foundation.
4. Supporting Sawayaka Welfare Foundation and KidsFam­>>
Tokio Marine Group supports such organizations as the Sawayaka Welfare Foundation and. 
Foundation for Severely-Ill Children and Their Families (KidsFam).
❖ Relation between Written Content and SDGs ❖ Actions for Creating a Symbiotic Society [Material Issue: Local Community and Social Contribution Activities and Awareness-Raising and. 
Educational Activities]
Tokio Marine Group undertakes social contribution activities for the elderly and awareness-raising and education activities for dementia as part of volunteer activities supporting the safety and security of the local community and families.
■Descriptive Leaflets. 
Insurance Leaflets in a Larger Size and a Reader-Friendly Font for Four Main Products (Auto. 
Insurance, Fire Insurance, Medical Insurance and Super Insurance)
In response to the comments Tokio Marine & Nichido received from elderly customers that letters on its leaflets are too small to read, the company increased the size of leaflets of four mainstay products, namely the Total Assist series of auto insurance, home insurance, medical insurance (fixed-amount accident insurance) and. 
Super Insurance, from A4 size to A3 size. These leaflets also feature a reader-friendly font and seek to boost ease-of- understanding for many customers, including elderly people and persons with disabilities.
1. Social Contribution Activities for the Elderly and Awareness-Raising Activities for Dementia. 
Relevant goal Relevant target Contribution to the target achievement 10.2 Empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status • Re-evaluating products corresponding to LGBT • Initiative concerning courses to foster support for dementia care • Activities associated with an elderly watch support network project • Supporting sports for the disabled and the Special Olympics Nippon Foundation • Supporting Himawari no Kai and the Sawayaka Welfare Foundation • Collaboration with the Japan Deafblind Association. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


118 ■Activities Associated with an Elderly Watch Support Network Project. 
Tokio Marine Assistance concluded an agreement related to an elderly watch support network project in Shinagawa Ward, Tokyo, in November 2015 with Shinagawa Ward and the Shinagawa Ward. 
Council on Social Welfare and activities continue to this day. The project aims to create a system of support through mutual cooperation to make life easier for elderly persons living alone. Neighborly consultation services are made available and inconveniences are kept to a minimum in the area they are familiar with living.
The company utilizes its excellent phone response skills amassed in the course of its core call center business and employees serve as volunteers for making regular calls to the elderly as part of a service. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido supports deaf and blind persons in conjunction with the Japan Deafblind. 
Association and supports sports for disabled persons through the Japanese Para-Sports Association and Special Olympics Nippon Foundation.
■ Collaboration with the Japan Deafblind Association. 
The Japan Deafblind Association is engaged in activities to support people with hearing and vision impairments across the country. Their activities include dispatching sign language interpreters and helpers, training interpreters and publishing a biannual magazine for the hearing and visually impaired. Tokio Marine & Nichido has been a supporting member of the association since 2008. At the association’s annual national conference, which is held for the purpose of promoting exchange among people with these impairments and improving the skills of sign language interpreters and helpers, employees working in offices and branches in respective areas serve as volunteer staff to cooperate in running the event. In fiscal 2019, about 50 employees from the Nagoya region provided support for the organization’s 28th national conference.
Japan Deafblind Association (in Japanese) 2. Supporting Deaf and Blind Persons and Sports for the Disabled *A consultation service established by Shinagawa Ward to ease the anxieties of elderly persons living alone and other residents so that they can continue living in a familiar environment ■Contributing to the Creation of Communities That Understand Dementia:
Courses to Foster Support for Dementia Care. 
Tokio Marine Group provides support for the Million-Supporter Caravan for Dementia, which is promoted by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and the nationwide Caravan Mate Liaison. 
Council, and conducts courses to foster support for dementia care as a volunteer activity to support the safety and security of local communities and families. With the ultimate goal of creating neighborhoods where people with dementia and their families can live with peace of mind, the program is designed so that employees who take the course have the correct knowledge about dementia to share with friends and families as well as support and give compassionate consideration to people with dementia and their families in work and private life.
During the one-and-a-half-hour program conducted in each work department, mainly in Tokyo, attendees watched a DVD, listened to a lecture given by an employee (called a “caravan mate”) who has received special training on this subject and participated in a role-playing session. As of March 2020, a total of around 5,700 Group company employees have participated in this educational program and become supporters for dementia care. We intend to promote this program further, as it gives us a good opportunity to deepen our understanding of the aging population and dementia and think about how we accordingly deal with our customers and our own families.
Million-Supporter Caravan for Dementia (in Japanese) confirming their safety being implemented by Shinagawa. 
Ward’s “Sasaeai Hotto Station*.” Employees make regular phone calls to the homes of users living in Shinagawa. 
Ward, and if there is no answer or they detect an abnormal change during the conversation, they immediately report it to “Sasaeai Hotto Station” so that the situation can be handled as smoothly as possible. In 2019, the volunteer service was implemented 48 times following expansion of the service area and the yearly rise in the number of users to whom they make phone calls. This project will be carried out on a continuous and steady basis as a means of contributing to the local community.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


119 ■ Building a Society That Transcends Disabilities: Learn About, Watch and Experience Sports by Disabled Persons. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido started sponsoring the. 
Japanese Para-Sports Association (JPSA) in May 2016 and Japan Inclusive Football Federation (JIFF) in. 
October 2016 to support athletes striving to overcome the challenge of disability and enhance opportunities for employees to provide support and volunteer at sports events for the disabled. Employees from around. 
Japan conduct volunteer activities and go to cheer on athletes at the Japan Para Championships, which are sports events for disabled persons held regionally.
■ Building a Society in Which Anyone Can Take on. 
Active Roles with the Special Olympics. 
In support of the Special Olympics Nippon Foundation’s vision of creating a society where people with and without disabilities understand and respect each other’s differences and live and grow together, Tokio Marine & Nichido became an official sponsor of the foundation in fiscal 2005 and has been supporting its activities by providing funds and volunteers. Additionally, Tokio Marine Group undertakes a year-round volunteer activity to create good luck bracelets to show our support to athletes of the foundation. In fiscal 2019, a total of 1,764 employees joined this activity.
■Re-evaluating Products Corresponding to LGBT*
In view of rising social awareness of matters affecting sexual minorities, Tokio Marine & Nichido is working gradually to include same-sex partners in the definition of “spouse” for products that provide coverage for families and married couples. We respect the diverse family structures of our customers and will provide products that can be helpful in times of need.
Tokio Marine Group supports the NPOs Himawari no Kai, Sawayaka Welfare Foundation and. 
Foundation for Severely-Ill Children and Their Families (KidsFam).
3. Re-evaluating Products to better serve LGBT people 4. Supporting Sawayaka Welfare Foundation and KidsFam * LGBT is a general term that refers to sexual minorities and is derived from the first letters of the words lesbian, gay, bi-sexual and transgender.
■Building a Society in Which Expectant Mothers Can Live with Peace of Mind:
Supporting Himawari no Kai. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido and Tokio Marine & Nichido Life have been supporting the NPO Himawari no Kai since 2011. Himawari no Kai is an NPO approved by the Cabinet Office, Government of Japan that was established in 1997 with the aim of assisting expectant mothers and their families. The organization’s most notable activity is increasing public recognition of its. 
Maternity Mark. Moreover, it hands out traffic safety stickers bearing this mark to protect new mothers from traffic accidents. By supporting the organization, the two companies will further contribute to the creation of local communities and society where expecting mothers and their families can live with peace of mind.
Himawari no Kai (in Japanese) ■Contributing to Building a New Society in Which All People Have a Close Rapport:
Tie-Up with the Sawayaka Welfare Foundation. 
The Sawayaka Welfare Foundation forms a network with a number of volunteer organizations across the country and works to build a system of mutual assistance in each local community with the ultimate goal of “building a new society in which all people can develop a close rapport with each other” in order to fulfill their desire to lead an enriching life. Tokio Marine & Nichido empathizes with this organizational philosophy and partners with the foundation.
National volunteer network information of the Sawayaka Welfare Foundation (in Japanese) ■ Supporting KidsFam in Building a Society in Which Severely Ill Children and Their Families. 
Can Live with Peace of Mind. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido supports the activities of the Foundation for Severely-Ill Children and Their. 
Families (KidsFam). KidsFam reaches out to children requiring medical care due to severe illness or disability and their families. It undertakes a variety of support programs, conducts public relations, awareness-raising and training activities and disseminates relevant information aimed at building a society in which they can live with peace of mind. For details, please refer to the activities outlined on the KidsFam website.
KidsFam (in Japanese)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth. 
Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


120. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People. 
Sustainability Management. 
In order for Tokio Marine Group to earn the trust of all people and society and achieve sustainable growth, we need to reinforce our structure for resilient, sound and highly transparent sustainability management as a global insurance group and as our responsibility to customers, employees and the global environment.
Tokio Marine Group has provided “safety and security” to society and contributed to its development by making the most of our abundant knowledge and experience accumulated over the years in the insurance industry. In the future as well, we will work to solve various social issues and continuously raise the Group’s corporate value while contributing to a safe, secure and sustainable future. By doing so, we aim to become a “Good Company” that is trusted by all people and society.
Our efforts toward this goal are founded on our remaining a corporate group that provides the best value to customers, offers healthy and rewarding workplaces for employees and causes less environmental impact. Tokio Marine Group strives to strengthen this “foundation” by setting targets and going through the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle in accordance with our policies concerning each material issue.
Improving Quality from the Customer’s Perspective >>
Aiming to become “a company that delivers sustainable growth by providing safety and security to customers and by always remaining their first choice,” Tokio Marine Group takes feedback from customers seriously and works to improve the operational quality on a constant basis. We strive to build trust-based partnerships with agents and improve our operational quality together in order to truly provide safety and security from a customer standpoint.
Promoting Environmental Management >>
Tokio Marine Group consumes a considerable amount of paper and energy in its business activities. In order to reduce this environmental impact as much as possible, we constantly promote initiatives that contribute to the creation of a sustainable future.
Promoting Health and Productivity Management >>
To continue as a company that is trusted and chosen by customers, the physical and mental health of employees, who will be the driving force behind our efforts, is an important topic for us. Each Tokio Marine Group company has been making efforts to create an environment in which employees can work with enthusiasm by providing both physical and mental health care for employees.
Developing and Utilizing Diverse Human Resources >>
In order to maximize the potential of our human resources in supporting global business expansion, Tokio Marine Group is working to develop human resources who bring forth a positive cycle of growth and performance/work and life with a focus on expertise, diversity and a global perspective. Management relating to the development and utilization of human resources throughout the Group is controlled by the Group CHRO (Chief Human Resources Officer). The implementation status is monitored via the Board of Directors and Management Meetings of respective Group companies.
Sustainability Materiality (Material Issues) • Grievance resolution (improving quality of products and services) • Human resources development, diversity and inclusion and labor practices • Health and productivity management • Reduction of environmental footprint


121. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People. 
Improving Quality from the Customer’s Perspective. 
Aiming to become “a company that delivers sustainable growth by providing safety and security to customers and by always remaining their first choice,” Tokio Marine Group takes feedback from customers seriously and works to improve the operational quality on a constant basis. We strive to build trust-based partnerships with agents and improve our operational quality together in order to truly provide safety and security from a customer standpoint.
2. Customer-Oriented Business Conduct Policies >> To more thoroughly carry out customer-oriented insurance business while remaining close to customers and keeping an acute awareness of their diversifying needs, Tokio Marine & Nichido, Tokio Marine & Nichido Life and some other Group companies have formulated and announced their respective policies on customer-oriented business conduct and have been working with agents to promote specific initiatives under these policies. We will review our policies on a periodic basis to constantly realize better business conduct, thereby earning the lasting trust of customers.
4. Quality Improvement Initiatives >> Tokio Marine Group continuously promotes the enhancement of quality from a customer standpoint in accordance with the Group’s Corporate Philosophy: “Through the provision of the highest quality products and services, Tokio Marine Group aims to deliver safety and security to all its customers.” 5. Working Together with Agents to Improve Quality >> Tokio Marine Group endeavors to build partnerships based on trust and improve the operational quality through smooth communication with agents.
6. Education and Training Systems for Agents >> In order to meet customer expectations and earn their trust so that customers are able to consult us about insurance with confidence, each Tokio Marine Group company formulates and establishes educational programs and training systems for agents.
1. Basic Policies for Protection of Customers’ Interests >> Tokio Marine Group establishes basic policies for the protection of customers’ interests and develops a system to thoroughly promote being customer-oriented and to pursue various aspects including customer protection.
3. Response to Customer Feedback >> Based on the Group’s common standards related to customer feedback, each company of Tokio Marine Group has formulated a response policy in order to develop a structure to utilize this feedback for improving products and services.
❖ Relation between Written Content and SDGs ❖ Section Composition. 
Relevant goal Relevant target Contribution to the target achievement 3.6 Halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents. 
Establishing a foundation to provide products and services for building a secure society by leveraging traffic technology innovation 11.2 Provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems for all, improving road safety, notably by expanding public transport. 
Establishing a foundation to provide products and services for making society resilient to natural disasters and for increasing safety in daily lives by leveraging traffic technology innovation 12.2 Achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources 12.8 Have the relevant information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature. 
Establishing a foundation to provide products and services for building a secure society by leveraging traffic technology innovation and for building a secure society by responding to varying lifestyles and changes in society 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters. 
Establishing a foundation to provide products and services for making society resilient to natural disasters 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms. 
Customer Feedback Response Policy


122. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People. 
Tokio Marine Group establishes basic policies for the protection of customers’ interests and develops a system to thoroughly promote being customer-oriented and to pursue various aspects including customer protection. In addition, in accordance with the Tokio Marine Group Policies for Managing. 
Prevention of Transactions Involving Conflicts of Interest and through compliance with these policies by directors, officers and employees, Tokio Marine & Nichido will work to manage transactions involving conflicts of interest to ensure that clients’ interests are not unduly harmed.
Tokio Marine Group Policies for Managing Prevention of Transactions Involving Conflicts of Interest. 
To more thoroughly carry out customer-oriented insurance business while remaining close to customers and keeping an acute awareness of their diversifying needs, Tokio Marine & Nichido,
Tokio Marine & Nichido Life and some other Group companies have formulated and announced their respective policies on customer-oriented business conduct and have been working with agents to promote specific initiatives under these policies. We will review our policies on a periodic basis to constantly realize better business conduct, thereby earning the lasting trust of customers.
■Tokio Marine & Nichido Customer-Oriented Business Conduct Policies. 
Business Conduct Policy 1: Business conduct utilizing customer feedback. 
Under its corporate philosophy of placing customer trust at the base of all its business activities, Tokio. 
Marine & Nichido has formulated a customer feedback response policy to encourage employees and agents to take customer feedback seriously and use it proactively in corporate activities. The company will pursue customer-oriented business conduct according to the policy.
Business Conduct Policy 2: Insurance solicitation. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido will work to provide appropriate products and services based on a correct understanding of risks facing customers and their needs and purposes while providing necessary information when concluding an insurance contract.
Business Conduct Policy 3: Payment of insurance claims (claims service)
To be of help to customers in times of need, remain by their side while correctly understanding their situations and positions and respond to their trust, Tokio Marine & Nichido will work to ensure the quality of its claims service and make swift and appropriate claims payments.
1. Basic Policies for Protection of Customers’ Interests 2. Customer-Oriented Business Conduct Policies. 
Business Conduct Policy 4: Initiatives to instill these policies. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido will provide training programs and promote initiatives to instill these business conduct policies in agents and employees so that they will always act in a customer-oriented manner.
Business Conduct Policy 5: Management of transactions involving conflicts of interest. 
In accordance with the Tokio Marine Group Policies for Managing Prevention of Transactions. 
Involving Conflicts of Interest and through compliance with these policies by directors, officers and employees, Tokio Marine & Nichido will work to manage transactions involving conflicts of interest to ensure that clients’ interests are not unduly harmed.
■Tokio Marine & Nichido Life Customer-Oriented Business Conduct Policies. 
Business Conduct Policy 1: Business conduct utilizing customer feedback. 
Under its corporate philosophy of placing customer trust at the base of all its business activities,
Tokio Marine & Nichido Life regards it as extremely important that all employees and agents seriously take feedback from customers, including complaints, requests and suggestions, and meet their expectations. The company has accordingly formulated its customer feedback response policy and will work to make its business conduct even more customer-oriented.
Business Conduct Policy 2: Insurance solicitation • Tokio Marine & Nichido Life will work to develop life insurance products and services matched to customer needs while also paying attention to social and economic trends and changes in the business environment.
• Tokio Marine & Nichido Life will deliver security by providing custom-tailored solutions that meet increasingly diverse customer needs and protect customers and their families.
• Tokio Marine & Nichido Life will implement initiatives to provide detailed information on products and explain them in a thorough manner to customers and have them confirm, based on a correct understanding of the products, that our solutions match their needs and purposes.
Business Conduct Policy 3: Follow-up services and payment of insurance claims and benefits. 
Recognizing that paying insurance claims and benefits is one of the most basic and important responsibilities of an insurance company, Tokio Marine & Nichido Life will make sure to explain policy and other details to all customers and make swift and accurate payments, working always from a customer standpoint. The company will also set up a system to provide follow-up services to elderly customers to ensure that they will make claims for which they are entitled to without omissions.


123. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People. 
Business Conduct Policy 4: Initiatives to instill these policies. 
In order to encourage employees, agents and direct sales employees (“Life Partners”) to act in a customer-oriented manner in all business conduct, Tokio Marine & Nichido Life will establish necessary evaluation and training programs and continue to implement initiatives to instill these business conduct policies among them.
Business Conduct Policy 5: Management of transactions involving conflicts of interest. 
In accordance with the Tokio Marine Group Policies for Managing Prevention of Transactions Involving. 
Conflicts of Interest and through compliance with these policies by directors, officers and employees,
Tokio Marine & Nichido Life will work to manage transactions involving conflicts of interest to ensure that clients’ interests are not unduly harmed.
Business Conduct Policy 6: Asset management. 
In order to ensure future payments of insurance claims and benefits, Tokio Marine & Nichido Life will conduct asset management while paying due consideration to the distinctive characteristics of insurance contracts and by applying appropriate risk control.
Based on the Group’s common standards related to customer feedback, each company of Tokio. 
Marine Group has formulated a response policy in order to develop a structure to utilize this feedback for improving products and services.
■ Customer Feedback Response Policy. 
Critical opinions and demands as well as compliments from customers are valuable assets for us to provide more quality services to customers. Based on the Group’s basic policy related to customer feedback, each company of Tokio Marine Group has formulated a response policy in order to develop a structure to utilize customer opinions for improving products and services.
■Structure to Make Improvements Based on Customer Feedback. 
Customer surveys and feedback received directly from customers by employees and agents lead to quality improvements in terms of products, services and other aspects. For example, Tokio. 
Marine & Nichido, Nisshin Fire and Tokio Marine & Nichido Life enter such feedback into a central management system that is set up on their respective intranets for later analysis. This feedback is then utilized for the said improvements. Additionally, Tokio. 
Marine & Nichido conducts regular meetings with external advisors and consumer monitors in order to receive advice from the perspective of consumers. These activities have translated into various improvements, including easier-to-understand notices and documents. 3. Response to Customer Feedback. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Customer Feedback Response Policy ・ Basic Philosophy. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido sincerely accepts and actively applies customer feedback to its corporate activities with customer trust as the basis of all of its business activities.
・ Basic Policy (1) We will proactively accept and appreciate customer feedback.
(2) We will undertake company-wide initiatives to responsibly address customer feedback <Initiatives in Compliance with ISO 10002>
As a means of standardizing the response to customer feedback companywide, Tokio Marine &
Nichido and Tokio Marine & Nichido Life have established operation systems in conformity with ISO 10002, the international standard for management of the complaints handling process. Additionally, these two companies were the first in the domestic financial industry to verify compliance with the. 
ISO 10002 standard in June 2007 and subsequently made an external announcement in July. Under these operation systems, we will continuously strive to enhance the quality of operations in terms of products, services and other relevant aspects based on customer feedback. Nisshin Fire also made a self-declaration of compliance with the ISO 10002 standard in July 2008.
■ Listening to Customer Feedback. 
Each Tokio Marine Group company actively listens to customer feedback through various means such as customer surveys, telephone calls from customers, company websites and information gathering via agents and sales personnel. From the perspective of enhancing the transparency of initiatives regarding customer feedback, the number of feedback comments received, details of these comments and examples of products and services developed or improved based on such feedback are made public via company websites in greater detail.
through to the end.
(3) We will utilize customer feedback to enhance the quality of our operations, including ­products and services.
(4) We will deliver greater safety and security based on customer feedback.


124. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido is conducting customer surveys regarding auto insurance, fire insurance and. 
Super Insurance at the time of contract. The aim is to confirm whether the company is providing easy- to-understand explanations of details of coverage, premiums payments, rider services and important terms. Tokio Marine & Nichido also asks for cooperation in surveys after paying insurance claims to customers in order to obtain a wide range of opinions regarding responses to accidents. The company constantly makes efforts to improve quality based on this customer feedback.
Tokio Marine & Nichido Life is obtaining customer feedback by enclosing surveys along with notices regarding contract details, insurance policies and other relevant documents that are sent to all policyholders once a year.
Nisshin Fire strives to identify customer needs through various surveys, for example, on staff response during the contracting process and accident response services and works together with its agents to enhance the quality of its services to bring even greater satisfaction to customers.
<Structure for Listening to Customer Feedback> [Tokio Marine & Nichido] [Tokio Marine & Nichido Life] [Nissin Fire] *An internal cross-sectional committee of the Board of Directors composed of fulltime directors and general managers and established for the purpose of utilizing feedback from customers to improve operational quality


125. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People < Fiscal 2019 Number of Customer Feedback Comments> [Tokio Marine & Nichido]
Customer feedback categories Representative examples. 
Apr.- Jun. 2019 Jul.- Sep. 2019 Oct.- Dec. 2019 Jan.- Mar. 2020 Fiscal 2019. 
Number of comments Number of comments Number of comments Number of comments Total as of Mar. 2020. 
Products and services. 
Policy and pamphlet related Policy and pamphlet details difficult to understand 363 331 345 291 1,330. 
Products and services related Requests for improving products and services, others 1,346 1,431 1,244 1,225 5,246. 
Subtotal: Products and services 1,709 1,762 1,589 1,516 6,576. 
Enrollment: Contract procedures. 
Contract renewal procedures Delays in sending renewal information, others 1,051 1,086 1,127 990 4,254. 
Explanation of contract details Insufficient explanation of contract details, others 299 333 300 288 1,220. 
Subtotal 1,350 1,419 1,427 1,278 5,474. 
Enrollment: Contract management. 
Policy deficiencies Errors in listed policy details 62 70 113 223 468. 
Non-arrival of policy Delay in sending of policy 34 29 39 22 124. 
Modification procedures Delay in modification procedures, others 1,099 1,138 1,105 1,010 4,352. 
Account transfers Unable to make account transfers, others 189 195 213 169 766. 
Subtotal 1,384 1,432 1,470 1,424 5,710. 
Enrollment: Response and etiquette. 
Response and etiquette Telephone response and visitation etiquette 579 657 575 564 2,393. 
Enrollment: Others. 
Matters concerning enrollment not corresponding to the above 12 8 8 11 39. 
Subtotal : Enrollment total 3,343 3,516 3,480 3,277 13,616. 
Insurance claims payments: Insurance claims payment. 
Contacting and responses Delay in being contacted by staff, insufficient explanation of procedures 1,581 1,702 1,690 1,432 6,405. 
Payment amount Insufficient explanation about insurance claims payments 911 901 900 439 3,451. 
Advisability of payment Advisability of payment 1,527 1,572 1,612 1,573 6,284. 
Subtotal 4,019 4,175 4,202 3,744 16,140. 
Insurance claims payment: Response and etiquette. 
Response and etiquette Telephone response and visitation etiquette 668 742 729 608 2,747. 
Insurance claims payments: Others. 
Matters concerning payment not corresponding to the above 7 5 6 3 21. 
Subtotal: Total for insurance claims payments 4,694 4,922 4,937 4,355 18,908. 
Matters concerning personal information 76 53 66 63 258. 
Others 42 47 53 48 190. 
Dissatisfied Total 9,864 10,300 10,125 9,259 39,548. 
Requests 653 839 930 855 3,277. 
Compliments 1,097 1,293 1,860 1,422 5,672. 
Total 11,614 12,432 12,915 11,536 48,497 ［Tokio Marine & Nichido Life］ (Number of Comments of Dissatisfaction Only) (Number of Comments of Dissatisfaction Only) ［Nissin Fire］
Item Principal Details of Feedback Apr. 1, 2019– Mar. 31, 2020 Percent of Total (%)
New contract related Dissatisfied with explanations and with presentments on insurance policy at time of enrollment, others 1,930 14.3. 
Receipt related Dissatisfied with insurance premium payment methods and modification procedures, others 2,021 15.0. 
Protection related Dissatisfied with contract details modifications, policyholder loans, cancellation procedures, others 4,137 30.6. 
Insurance claims and benefits related Dissatisfied with payment procedures for insurance claims, benefits, maturity proceeds, others 1,077 8.0. 
Others Dissatisfied with after-service, etiquette and telephone response, others 4,342 32.1. 
Total 13,507 100.0. 
FY2018 FY2019 1. Contracting and soliciting activities (1) Product details (coverage, others) 17 12 (2) Contracting procedures (incomplete, delays, others) 151 165 (3) Soliciting activities (not thoroughly confirming with customers their needs and purposes, others) 87 113 (4) Insufficient or erroneous explanation about policy details, conditions and others 394 372 (5) Enrollment (conditions, restrictions, others) 15 19 (6) Error in insurance premium calculation 23 30 (7) Staff interaction with customers 53 30 (8) Contents of forms and other documents (application forms, invoices, leaflets, others) 20 20 (9) Other 132 171. 
Subtotal 892 932 2. Management and protection of contracts, collection of premiums (1) Insurance policies not reaching customers or errors in policies 29 29 (2) Availability of payment in installments or account transfer 32 48 (3) Procedures for changing policies 326 307 (4) Procedures for canceling policies 295 243 (5) Processing of maturity repayment (processing delay, amount repaid, others) 4 5 (6) Staff interaction with customers 36 11 (7) Other 91 64. 
Subtotal 813 707 3. Insurance claims (1) Amount of insurance claims paid 188 131 (2) Delay in response and method of response 605 716 (3) Advisability of payment 45 43 (4) Staff interaction with customers 254 229 (5) Other 5 7. 
Subtotal 1,097 1,126 4. Other (including complaints on the handling of personal information) 32 31. 
Total 2,834 2,796. 
Dissatisfied


126 大変不満 不満 やや不満 どちらともいえない やや満足 満足 大変満足 大変不満 不満 やや不満 どちらでもない 大変満足～やや満足 不満 + とても不満 普通 とても満足 + 満足 ■ 十分である ■ まあ十分である ■ どちらとも言えない ■ あまり十分でない ■ 十分でない ■ 該当する部門はない ■ 無回答 無回答 海外関係会社 国内関係会社 親会社 無回答 海外関係会社 国内関係会社 親会社 ■ 十分である ■ まあ十分である ■ どちらとも言えない ■ あまり十分でない ■ 十分でない ■ 該当する部門はない ■ 無回答 無回答 海外関係会社 国内関係会社 親会社 無回答 海外関係会社 国内関係会社 親会社 大変不満 不満 やや不満 どちらともいえない やや満足 満足 大変満足 大変不満 不満 やや不満 どちらでもない 大変満足～やや満足 不満 + とても不満 普通 とても満足 + 満足 大変不満 不満 やや不満 どちらともいえない やや満足 満足 大変満足 大変不満 不満 やや不満 どちらでもない 大変満足～やや満足 不満 + とても不満 普通 とても満足 + 満足
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People <Tokio Marine & Nichido: Level of Satisfaction (Fiscal 2019 Auto Insurance)> <Tokio Marine & Nichido Life: Level of Customer Satisfaction (Fiscal 2019)> <Nissin Fire: Level of Customer Satisfaction (Fiscal 2019)>
Status of customer feedback: Respective Group company websites. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido: Number of customer comments received and customer sursvey results (in Japanese)
Tokio Marine & Nichido Life: Status of customer feedback (in Japanese)
Nisshin Fire: Response to customer complaints (in Japanese) ■Level of Satisfaction regarding Overall Claims Services. 
Auto Insurance. 
Fire and Accident Insurance ■Overall Level of Satisfaction regarding Accident Response Services ■Overall Level of Satisfaction at the Time of Enrollment (Overall Level of Satisfaction regarding Contract Procedures, Product Details, etc.) ■Overall Level of Satisfaction regarding Contract Procedures 44.9% 87.9% 58.6% 57.5% 42.0% 37.0% 37.2% 92.4%
Very satisfied. 
Very satisfied Very satisfied. 
Satisfied. 
Satisfied Satisfied. 
Satisfied. 
Very satisfied + satisfied. 
Somewhat satisfied 6.6%
Neither satisfied nor dissatisfied 7.3%
Very dissatisfied + dissatisfied 0.3%
Neither satisfied nor dissatisfied 3.4%
Neither satisfied nor dissatisfied 3.5% Neither satisfied nor dissatisfied 3.2%
Neither satisfied nor dissatisfied 10.3%
Somewhat dissatisfied 1.3%
Somewhat dissatisfied 1.2% Dissatisfied 0.9%
Dissatisfied 1.0% Dissatisfied 0.8%
Dissatisfied 0.4% Very dissatisfied 0.9% Very dissatisfied 0.2%
Very dissatisfied 0.7% Very dissatisfied 0.4% ■Main Examples of Items That Have Been Developed and Improved Based on Customer. 
Feedback (Fiscal 2019)
Critical opinions and demands as well as compliments from customers are valuable assets for us to provide more quality services to customers. Based on the Group’s basic policy related to customer feedback, each company of Tokio Marine Group has formulated a response policy in order to develop a structure to utilize customer opinions for improving products and services.
<Tokio Marine & Nichido> 【Customer Feedback】
I want you to provide a new driver-only rider for your auto insurance.
[Response]
For policies that start on and after January 1, 2020, we started offering a driver-only rider in which the driver is the named insured. Policies with this rider offer a driver-only discount.
<Tokio Marine & Nichido Life> ● Extending the scope of application of the designated third-party claims system (March 2020) 【Customer Feedback】
I want you to extend the scope of application of your designated third-party claims system, as there will be more elderly people living alone or having no relatives in the future.
[Response]
Our system now allows the designation of a relative within the third degree, who is not living or sharing livelihood with the insured, or a person who is not a relative but is living with or sharing livelihood with the insured, or a person providing nursing care for the insured or managing his or her property.
<Nisshin Fire> 【Customer Feedback】
On your notice of claims payment, the address you printed showed my name in katakana, which looked strange to me. I think you should use kanji (Chinese characters).
[Response]
We upgraded our system to create forms we provide to customers, and we can now create easy-to- read customer forms using kanji characters.
Status of Customer Feedback: Respective Group Company Websites. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido: Improvement examples based on customer feedback (in Japanese)
Tokio Marine & Nichido Life: Major and specific development and improvement examples based on customer feedback (in Japanese)
Nisshin Fire: Examples of improvements that have been carried out based on customer feedback (in Japanese)


127. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People. 
Tokio Marine Group continuously promotes the enhancement of quality from a customer standpoint in accordance with the Group’s Corporate Philosophy: “Through the provision of the highest quality products and services, Tokio Marine Group aims to deliver safety and security to all its customers.” ■Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Quality Improvement. 
Tokio Marine Group has earned high regard from its customers by providing products and services that are ahead of the times in accordance with the Group’s Corporate Philosophy: “Through the provision of the highest quality products and services, Tokio Marine Group aims to deliver safety and security to all its customers.” In the medium to long term, changes in living and business environments resulting from frequent natural disasters, demographic shifts and technological innovation in the world will generate many new opportunities and risks. In response to the diversifying needs of both individual and corporate customers in connection with such new opportunities and risks, Tokio Marine Group will combine the capabilities of all Group companies and will do its best to provide new products and services that anticipate the changing times and extend beyond the framework of conventional insurance products and services in areas such as the financial, medical and consulting fields.
■Anshin (“Reassuring”) Quality. 
As an effort to meet customers’ expectations and gain their satisfaction, Tokio Marine & Nichido defines Anshin Quality, a level of quality that must be assured by anyone at the company, at anytime and anywhere by ensuring to achieve or execute things naturally expected of our products and services by customers.
Based on this Anshin Quality approach, the company has formulated its Anshin Quality Standards as quality standards that must be assuredly satisfied by anyone at the company, at anytime and anywhere. There are specific standards for each of the main business processes related to products and services, including solicitation, claims payment and basic customer response etiquette. Tokio. 
Marine & Nichido is strongly committed to being customer-oriented, having a firm determination to never provide to customers products or services that do not satisfy these standards.
4. Quality Improvement Initiatives ■Providing Information That Enables Customers to Make Claims without Any Omissions. 
To ensure that customers request insurance claims payments and insurance benefits without any omissions, Tokio Marine & Nichido. 
Life provides information to customers regarding insurance claims payments and insurance benefits when they enter into an insurance contract, during the contract validity period and when requesting insurance claims payments and insurance benefits. Additionally, through such means as our website, we ask customers to contact Tokio Marine & Nichido Life if they have any uncertainties about receiving insurance claims payments and insurance benefits.
■Raising the Quality of Call Centers. 
Tokio Marine Group’s call center departments implement a variety of initiatives for the purpose of raising the quality of customer responses throughout the Group’s call centers. In addition to mutually refining customer response skills by holding a “telephone response contest,” we strive to maintain and upgrade the quality of customer responses based on the Contact Center Standard for Tokio. 
Marine*(CCST).
Looking ahead, we will work to provide safety and security by striving to make caring responses from the customer’s perspective and enhancing the quality of our customer responses at all Group call centers.
* An operational standard formulated by Tokio Marine Group specifically for call centers ■Providing Anshin Quality of Claims Services to Customers. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido believes that our value as an insurance company is tested when an accident occurs. To prepare ourselves for such an emergency, we define Anshin Quality as specific quality standards that are indispensable for the products and services provided to customers and, together with agents, have been making full, concerted efforts toward the realization of Anshin Quality. Also in terms of claims services, we seek feedback broadly from customers and constantly endeavor to improve quality based on such feedback while repeating the cycle of implementation, verification and improvement.
As one example, we have implemented the following operational improvements based on the evaluation results and opinions we gather through a customer survey, which is conducted after. 
Guidebook on receiving insurance claims payments and insurance benefits


128. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People. 
To provide high-quality claims services in case of an emergency to deliver safety and security to customers by leveraging our high level of expertise, we are making various related efforts on top of the enhancement of the resolution capabilities of employees. In the following sections, we divide the process of claims services into five steps (receiving loss reports, initial response, loss adjustment, reporting progress and payment of insurance claims) and describe our efforts in each.
Receiving Loss Reports. 
Receiving a loss report from a customer is our first customer contact point in claims services. We work to eliminate anxieties held by a customer who just had an accident by asking whether or not he/ she was injured and what exactly happened and simultaneously giving considerate and appropriate advice.
Initial Response. 
After receiving a loss report, we confirm how the customer wishes to proceed with the accident response and provide a detailed description of the process from the beginning to the final resolution.
It is only after we consult with the customer that we will contact the parties and others concerned.
We try to relieve the customer’s anxiety by reporting back to him/her the results of contacting these parties.
Loss Adjustment. 
This step involves checking the status of a car or building damaged by the accident. At the same time, we scrutinize details of necessary repairs and estimated repair costs to confirm an adequate loss amount and explain it to the customer in an easy-to-understand manner.
Reporting Progress. 
To eliminate the customer’s anxiety and provide a higher sense of security, we make sure to report the progress in a manner and at the timing matched to the customer’s needs.
Payment of Insurance Claims. 
We calculate payable insurance claims and explain the details of these claims to the customer in an easy-to-understand manner. We then work to swiftly go through the payment procedures after confirming with the customer if he/she wants to file a claim.
We also utilize a system to check for other applicable policies and inform the possible payment of other insurance claims, if any, to the customer. For auto insurance, in particular, we have in place a * Re-examination Request System. 
A system for customers (including policyholders and insured persons) to request re- examination when they disagree with the decision not to pay insurance claims made by claims service bases in accordance with policy details.
When requested by a customer, the Claims Service Re-examination Committee, which is a closed-door committee composed of external specialists (doctors, lawyers and legal experts), re-examines the decision. The results are subsequently reported in written form to the customer who requested the re-examination. However, this system does not apply to cases that are outside the activity scope of the committee, which is to make a decision from a legal or medical viewpoint. For details, please contact the responsible claims service base.
Tokio Marine & Nichido: Re-examination Request System (in Japanese)
Tokio Marine & Nichido: Re-examination Results by the Claims Service Re-Examination. 
Committee (in Japanese) insurance claims are paid to policyholders of our auto insurance, who have been involved in an accident.
• Information regarding details of coverage and a list of available coverages (insurance claims) are sent to customers upon receipt of the notification of an accident, and personnel in charge provide information on the amount of claims payable in an easy-to-understand manner.
• When insurance claims are paid, personnel in charge will explain in an easy-to-understand manner while also sending a statement of claims payable that not only verifies the amount but also provides a detailed breakdown.
• When insurance claims cannot be paid, we inform customers of the reason both verbally and in written form in an easy-to-understand manner. Additionally, inquiries and claims from customers are accepted via an exclusive toll-free telephone line. Assistance from external specialists such as lawyers is also available via the Re-examination Request System*.


129. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People system that does not allow us to close the case until the payment of all payable insurance claims is made. By means of this system and various types of training, we ensure to make an appropriate payment of claims to customers.
Moreover, we constantly strive to improve the quality of our customer response over the telephone through employee training and by conducting a survey on its telephone responses by an external survey company. Efforts are geared toward ensuring all responsible personnel always make a considerate and honest response to customers.
■Resolution Capabilities of Team Experts. 
We consider it our mission to provide high-quality claims services when a customer is involved in an accident. In auto insurance, smooth claim settlement requires a team approach in which highly specialized and experienced staff members work as a team toward the same goal.
At Tokio Marine & Nichido, our experienced claims service staff team up with our nationwide network of highly specialized experts including adjusters, lawyers and consulting physicians as well as accountants and tax accountants to provide the resolution capabilities of Team Experts. This allows us to protect our customers in the event of an accident.
In addition to our reliable and extensive network of 236 service bases nationwide, we satisfy 93.6% of our customers who have filed claims under their insurance by exercising our sophisticated negotiating power backed by our industry dominance with more than around 2.82 million accident settlements per year.
Shared Value for Caring for Customers as Our First Priority. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido believes that putting customers first and foremost translates into the quality of claims services, which are intangible and not readily perceivable.
Accordingly, we distribute a booklet entitled Kokorokara (“From Our Hearts”) to all members engaged in claims services, including new employees who join the company each year. The booklet summarizes the values on which we place importance, including the shared ideas of all members involved with claims services for customers, working in harmony with colleagues and in pursuit of expertise.
We hope to continuously hand down our purpose, pride and sincerity in claims services from a customer standpoint as part of our DNA.
• “Our ceaseless pursuit for expertise is really a quest for better human qualities, and this quest never ends.” • “Face to face with a person who needs your help, as a fellow human being, what does your heart tell you?
Everything starts from here. I want to help because a person needs my help. This strength of emotion is our raison d’etre.”
Tokio Marine & Nichido Nisshin Fire. 
Number of service bases 236 107. 
Claims service staff and adjusters Approx. 10,700*1 Approx. 1,000. 
Lawyers Approx. 550 Approx. 50. 
Consultant physicians Approx. 110 Approx. 10. 
Tax accountants/Accountants Approx. 70 —
Number of automobile accident settlements (Annual) Approx. 2.82 million Approx. 0.2 million. 
Kokorokara booklet cover page and inside text. The English version is also available.
Claims Service System in Japan (As of March 2020) *1 As of July 2019


130. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People * TNet is an online agent system provided by Tokio Marine & Nichido with the intent of supporting agents in enhancing the quality of insurance business operations and increasing operational efficiency.
solicitation professionals who have acquired consultation-related knowledge and operational skills on top of basic knowledge of laws, tax affairs and other matters related to non-life insurance.
Going forward, we will promote reforms toward a new business model utilizing tablet devices and smartphones to realize an even more comfortable experience for customers. We will work hand-in- hand with our agents to deliver quality to all customers and gain higher recognition from customers.
Nisshin Fire has also established its Customer Trust Standards for agent operations concerning contract procedures, product presentations and response to customers involved in accidents or other incidents, as well as proceeding with initiatives accordingly to ensure that all its agents across. 
Japan provide customers with the same, high level of services. Additionally, Nisshin Fire’s agent commission system places emphasis on providing services and support for customers especially at the time of contract procedures and accidents, and the company conducts an evaluation of the level of achievement of operations as an agent to decide agents’ commissions.
■ Sharing Information with Agents. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido has developed the agent’s ICT system TNet* in order to readily provide functions that are related to insurance procedures and contracts management as well as various information and sales support tools that are necessary for agents in responding to customers.
Looking ahead, we have started developing a new agent system (next-generation TNet) that takes advantage of the latest advancements in digital technologies in order to strengthen agents’ customer responsiveness.
TNet top screen. 
To provide safety and security that truly is based on customers’ points of view, Tokio Marine Group endeavors to build partnerships based on trust and together improve the operational quality through smooth communication with agents.
■ The Role of Agents in Tokio Marine Group. 
In auto, life and other insurance, the role of agents in Tokio Marine Group is to protect customers from risks by providing various kinds of insurance products and services as intermediaries between customers and each insurance company in the Group. Agents are carrying out a broad range of consulting activities such as introducing optimal insurance tailored to the needs of each customer and quickly providing support to deliver security to customers in the event of disasters or accidents.
For agents to meet customers’ expectations and trust and be indispensable persons truly relied upon by customers, each Tokio Marine Group company has been proceeding with initiatives directed toward its agents such as various kinds of training, establishment of administrative procedures and IT systems and business administration management support.
■Working Together with Agents on Initiatives to Improve the Quality of Operations. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido defines Anshin (“Reassuring”) Quality Standards as specific quality standards that are indispensable for the products and services provided to customers and works together with agents to improve quality. In addition, with regard to an agent commission system, we conduct assessments in terms of quality, growth (scale, revenue increase rate, claims ratio) and partnership (including consulting capability, quality of agent business administration and claims service response capability). By doing so, we have established a system to support agents that delivers sustainable growth by providing safety and security to customers and by always remaining their first choice.
As qualifications of excellent agents and salespersons (insurance solicitors), we use an internal system to certify “Top-Quality Agents” and an external qualification program to certify “General Insurance. 
Total Planners.” The Top-Quality Agent certification is given to Tokio Marine & Nichido’s agents, which demonstrate a superior level of performance overall in terms of the abilities to propose insurance products and services to customers and respond to an accident and other emergencies and business soundness, stability and growth potential as an insurance agent, based on the standards specified by the company. The General Insurance Total Planner qualification is the most prestigious qualification for solicitation professionals given by The General Insurance Association of Japan to insurance 5. Working Together with Agents to Improve Quality


131. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People. 
With a view to responding to diversifying customer needs and nurturing corporate agents’ employees who have excellent consulting capabilities to propose appropriate insurance products, Tokio Marine & Nichido has established an Insurance Planner System. It is a human resources development system that provides early-stage education, starting with the acquisition of knowledge on the policy renewal process of the corresponding agents, to facilitate the learning of solicitation skills. Under this system, agents’ employees are temporarily transferred as trainees to Tokio Marine & Nichido for a maximum of two years to acquire specialized knowledge on insurance products, learn techniques of consultation- based sales in a phased and systematic manner and gain solicitation skills. The goal is to enable them to assume the role of a professional salesperson highly specialized in his or her area of expertise at the respective corporate agents.
The program can also be utilized as a broader supportive measure to help agents grow, as it has expanded its scope from specialized agents to include part-time agents in the auto, real estate and financial fields.
Nisshin Fire also operates the Risk Advisor Employee System, a similar trainee system to develop specialized professional agents. The system is designed to acquire various knowledge and practical work experience that are necessary for selling insurance while being engaged in soliciting contracts and related work for a certain period.
In order to meet customer expectations and earn their trust so that customers are able to consult us about insurance with peace of mind, we support the development of professional human resources through a qualifications system and training programs.
■ Original Learning Program. 
In order to foster salespersons capable of providing meticulous and excellent services to customers,
Tokio Marine & Nichido offers a learning program that covers a broad range of operational knowledge on product details, claims services, compliance and other business-related topics. A course on basic products knowledge, in particular, is provided as a mandatory course, which salespersons must take before they engage in product sales. Salespersons can take each course through various means.
Tokio Marine & Nichido Life Training College. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Life provides the Tokio Marine & Nichido Life Training College training program for life insurance agents to develop professional insurance salespersons. In this program, for roughly four months agency salespersons and the company’s responsible employees take part together in group training and web-based training, in which the most advanced training program has been adopted, while also carrying out practical activities on the front lines of business. With regard to these practical activities, the company provides the latest programs for supporting the sales activities of participants, such as the adoption of Antore Hiroba, a website where participants can exchange information with each other. Also, the company gives salespersons opportunities to continue helping each other to improve their skills after the completion of their training, including follow-up training at branch offices.
■ Agent Trainee System 6. Education and Training Systems for Agents


132. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People. 
Promoting Environmental Management 1- A. What Our Environmental Management Aims for: Corporate Philosophy and Policy >> 1- B. Stance on Promoting Environmental Management >> 1- C. Environmental Challenges and Initiatives >>
Tokio Marine Group has set “Protecting the Earth” as a core sustainability theme in our new. 
Mid-Term Business Plan “To Be a Good Company 2020” based on our Corporate Philosophy and the Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter. We are establishing our stance on promoting environmental management and moving forward with various initiatives to combat environmental challenges, beginning with the protection of biodiversity through our general business activities.
3. Concept for Reducing CO2 Emissions >>
Tokio Marine Group has positioned initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions as a key challenge and we are working to reduce the environmental footprint throughout the Group in Japan and overseas and become carbon neutral.
4. Initiatives for Energy Conservation and the Reduction of Environmental Footprint >>
Tokio Marine Group is striving to enhance environmental awareness among employees, boost the environmental performance of the buildings we own, reduce paper consumption, promote eco-safe driving and the use of recycled automobile parts, and encourage the introduction of. 
Eco Action 21, an environmental management system for small- and medium-size companies, through our Group companies.
2. Preservation of Biodiversity >>
Tokio Marine Group has positioned the preservation of biodiversity as a challenge that needs to be tackled, and we are striving to find a solution through general business activities.
❖Relation between Written Content and SDGs ❖ Section Composition. 
Relevant goal Relevant target Contribution to the target achievement 11.6 Reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management. 
Initiatives to conserve energy and preserve the environment 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climaterelated hazards and natural disasters in all countries Preservation of biodiversity. 
For Tokio Marine Group, promoting environmental management is crucial in implementing our. 
Corporate Philosophy. We believe that working proactively to contribute to the resolution of environmental challenges and create environmental value leads to greater sustainable corporate value for the Group.
Tokio Marine Group states in its Corporate Philosophy, “Acting as a good corporate citizen through fair and responsible management, Tokio Marine Group will broadly contribute to the development of society,” and in the Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter concerning protection of the global environment, “Acknowledging that the protection of the global environment is an important responsibility for all corporate entities, we respect the harmonization with and the improvement of the global environment in all of our activities.”
In our new Mid-Term Business Plan “To Be a Good Company 2020,” “Protecting the Earth” has been set as a core sustainability theme, and we are working to create environmental value in various ways through general Group business activities.
Tokio Marine Group consumes a considerable amount of paper and energy in its business activities. In order to reduce this environmental footprint as much as possible, we constantly promote initiatives and contribute to the creation of a sustainable future by achieving carbon neutral status through. 
Mangrove Planting Project that helps offsetting CO2 abosorption.
1-A. What Our Environmental Management Aims for: Corporate Philosophy and Policy ■ Environmental Philosophy/Environmental Policy of Tokio Marine & Nichido <Environmental Philosophy>
Adopting the conservation of the global environment as one of its key management policies, Tokio


133. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People 1. Protection of the Global Environment and Preservation of Biological Diversity through the. 
Insurance Business 2. Reduction of Environmental Footprint 3. Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations 4. Continuous Improvement of the Environment and Prevention of Pollution 5. Promotion of Environmental Awareness-Raising and Philanthropic Activities. 
The above policy will be made well known to and understood by all employees and released to the public. (Revised on July 1, 2015)
Tokio Marine & Nichido strives to contribute to protection of the global environment and preservation of biological diversity through business operations such as insurance products, claim services, financial services, etc.
Tokio Marine & Nichido strives to reduce the environmental footprint by recognizing the environmental footprint through consumption of resources and energies and emission of wastes and promoting resource saving, energy saving, low-carbonization, resource recycling, harmonization with nature and green purchasing from a viewpoint of the overall value chain.
Tokio Marine & Nichido complies with laws and rules of environmental protection and various agreements on environmental protection upon which the company agreed.
Tokio Marine & Nichido strives to prevent environmental pollution by setting goals and targets, checking and revising its activities, and continually improving the environment.
Tokio Marine & Nichido strives to promote environmental protection not only by promoting the dissemination of environmental information, provision of environmental consulting services and environmental awareness-raising and educational activities, but also by promoting local community and social contribution activities as a good corporate citizen.
Tokio Marine Group has established a dedicated department (Sustainability Division, Corporate. 
Planning Department) at Tokio Marine Holdings to oversee and promote environmental management for the Group. This department identifies challenges related to environmental management and formulates and implements the Group’s environmental management strategy. In addition, we have assigned sustainability key persons in each department responsible for sustainability activities at. 
Group companies in Japan and overseas. Sustainability key persons are committed to reducing the environmental burden associated with our business activities alongside the management team in each Group company. The Sustainability Division, Corporate Planning Department supports efforts to promote environmental management at Group companies through dialogue and cooperation with the sustainability key persons. At core Group companies such as Tokio Marine & Nichido, we have set up a dedicated department to oversee and promote environmental management (e.g., Sustainability. 
Division, Corporate Planning Department at Tokio Marine & Nichido). A sustainability key person, assigned to each department and branch office to promote sustainability activities, encourages the full participation of employees in environmental management.
Tokio Marine Group performs plan-do-check-act (PDCA) management through our proprietary. 
Green Assist environmental management system, which draws on ISO 14001, and engages in energy conservation and resource conservation activities. The head office of Tokio Marine & Nichido adopted an environmental management system based on the ISO 14001 environmental management system in fiscal 1999* and is working continuously to achieve environment-related targets. At Group companies in Japan and overseas, we are introducing our unique environmental management system through collaboration between Tokio Marine Holdings and Tokio Marine & Nichido and every year targets are set, including environmental issues. Active efforts are being made to achieve these targets.
Tokio Marine Group aims to contribute to the resolution of environmental issues that include alleviation of and adaptation to climate change, the preservation of biodiversity and creation of a resource-recycling society and connect this with greater corporate value. With this in mind, we are implementing a variety of initiatives in collaboration with various stakeholders.
1-B. Stance on Promoting Environmental Management 1-C. Environmental Issues and Initiatives * There were no major issues noted in internal auditing or external examination under ISO 14001 and no major violations of environmental laws among Group companies.
Marine & Nichido recognizes that it is an important responsibility of all humans and companies in the present world to protect the environment. Together with stakeholders, Tokio Marine & Nichido is committed to realizing a society where sustainable development is maintained through the efforts of all employees throughout the entire range of its business activities in order to improve and coexist in harmony with the environment.
<Environmental Policy>
Tokio Marine & Nichido has established the following policies and will make every effort to realize them in all areas of its activities.


134. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People. 
Tokio Marine Group has positioned preservation of biodiversity as a challenge that it has a responsibility to help resolve and is working to do just that through general business activities.
■Tokio Marine Group’s Vision for Biodiversity. 
Preserving biodiversity translates into a variety of benefits, namely, lower emissions of greenhouse gases, mitigation of disaster risks from tsunamis and revitalization of regional economies, and contributes to the creation of a sustainable future. Tokio Marine Group recognizes the importance of achieving the goals of the Convention on Biological Diversity, the Convention on Wetlands of. 
International Importance especially as Waterfowl Habitat (Ramsar Convention) and the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (Washington Convention). In addition, based on the vision outlined below, Tokio Marine Group contributes to the preservation of biodiversity through the reduction of paper usage as well as mangrove planting overseas and environmental enlightenment programs in Japan. This vision draws on Guidelines for Private Sector. 
Engagement in Biodiversity issued by the Ministry of the Environment, Millennium Ecosystem. 
Assessment and The Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity (TEEB) as members of the United. 
Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and the Promotion Partners program under The Declaration of Biodiversity by Nippon Keidanren.
Tokio Marine & Nichido’s Stance on Biodiversity. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido states in its environmental policy that it will strive to contribute to protection of the environment and preservation of biodiversity in its business activities, including insurance products, non-life insurance services and financial services. Efforts are being made to preserve biodiversity by making this a priority in business activities.
Preserving Biodiversity and Wetlands through Products and Services >>
Building Communities for People to Live with Peace of Mind through Environmental Protection. 
Activities >> ■ Participation in the Promotion Partners Program under The Declaration of Biodiversity by. 
Nippon Keidanren. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido supports The Declaration of Biodiversity by Nippon Keidanren and in January 2010 joined the Promotion Partners program under the declaration. Our business activities comply with the declaration and its behavioral guidelines.
The Declaration of Biodiversity by Nippon Keidanren (in Japanese)
Tokio Marine Group’s Vision for Biodiversity. 
Tokio Marine Group recognizes the preservation of biodiversity as one of its most important environmental issues and, as a good corporate citizen, conducts initiatives for the preservation and sustainable use of biodiversity under the following two themes.
1. We endeavor to understand our relationship with biodiversity (benefits and impact) in our business activities to reduce our impact on biodiversity and to preserve biodiversity.
2. We engage in educational activities on the preservation of biodiversity for the general public and work with our stakeholders to contribute to the development of a sustainable society.
2. Preservation of Biodiversity. 
In order to contribute to the alleviation of climate change, we are working to reduce the environmental footprint through full employee participation. In addition, we have achieved carbon neutral status for the eighth time in seven consecutive years from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2019 by planting mangrove trees that provide the benefit of CO2 absorption and fixation, and through the purchase of green power.
In order to contribute to alleviation of and adaptation to climate change, preservation of biodiversity and creation of a resource-recycling society, we are striving to enhance employees’ environmental awareness, conserve energy and boost environmental performance in the buildings we own and reduce paper consumption, among other efforts. As the social issues of environmental pollution caused by plastics has become more serious in recent years, Tokio Marine Group is fully aware of this issue and has set the goal of reducing the environmental footprint including disposable plastic products. For example, we no longer use disposable plastic products at the company cafeteria in the head office of Tokio Marine & Nichido. Further, we encourage eco-safe driving throughout the value chain, utilize recycled auto parts and support the acquisition of Eco Action 21 certification.


135. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People ■CO2 Emission Reduction Data (Energy Conservation and Reduction in Buildings, Facilities, etc.) ［Tokio Marine Holdings and Major Subsidiaries］ <CO2 Emission Reduction Target> • Medium-term target (fiscal 2020): -3% (compared with fiscal 2017 level) • Reduction target in fiscal 2019: -1% compared with previous year <CO2 Emissions (Tokio Marine Holdings and Major Subsidiaries)>
Fiscal 2019 CO2 emissions by Tokio Marine Group and its major subsidiaries (Scope 1 (direct emissions) + Scope 2 (indirect emissions) + Scope 3 (other indirect emissions) business travel only) were 111,172 tons (Japan: 73,470 tons, overseas: 37,701 tons) versus a start-of-year target of 116,336 tons (a 1% reduction year on year), or a 4.4% decrease in emissions compared with the previous fiscal year.
As a result of efforts to steadily reduce CO2 emissions at Group companies in Japan and overseas, we succeeded in cutting these emissions beyond targets at the Group level. In addition, we have been expanding the coverage of the calculations for Scope 3 since fiscal 2015 in order to meet expectations from society in terms of initiatives to create environmental value by companies.
Sustainability Performance Data (CO2 emissions originating from energy sources and CO2 absorption and fixation (Tokio Marine Holdings and major subsidiaries) >> ［Tokio Marine & Nichido］ <CO2 Emission Reduction Target> •­Medium-term target (fiscal 2020): -40% (compared with fiscal 2006 level) •­Long-term target (fiscal 2050): -60% (compared with fiscal 2006 level) •­Reduction target in fiscal 2020: -1% compared with previous year. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido, a core operating company of Tokio Marine Group, is striving to realize its medium-term target (fiscal 2020) by: (1) reducing energy in its main building and Shinkan building in. 
Marunouchi, Tokyo, and Tama building; (2) monitoring the increase and decrease in energy on a total site basis in line with site reconstruction and transfer plans; (3) implementing energy conservation campaigns in all branches; and (4) increasing energy conservation performance in company-owned cars.
In addition, Tokio Marine & Nichido will continue to make efforts to conserve energy in buildings, equipment and company-owned cars from 2021 toward the realization of its long-term target (fiscal 2050).
<CO2 Emissions (Fiscal 2019 Results)>
Fiscal 2019 CO2 emissions by Tokio Marine & Nichido (Scope 1 (direct emissions) + Scope 2 (indirect missions) + Scope 3 (other indirect emissions) business travel only) were 56,844 tons versus a start- of-year target of 59,067 tons (a 1% reduction year on year), or a 3.6% decrease in emissions compared with the previous fiscal year. The main cause of this decrease was a reduction in power consumption owing to energy-saving initiatives.
Moreover, in order to meet the expectations of society regarding corporate efforts to create environmental value, we expanded the coverage of the calculations for Scope 3 in fiscal 2015.
Sustainability Performance Data (CO2 emissions originating from energy sources (Tokio Marine & Nichido)) >> ■Purchase of Tradable Green Power Certificates (Retirement of Emissions Credits)
Tokio Marine Group is promoting the use of natural energy in Japan and overseas.
Tokio Marine & Nichido has been purchasing Tradable Green Power Certificates in the amount of approximately 1 million kWh annually continuously since 2002 through wind power and biomass power generation. In addition, the Tradable Green Power Certificates purchased by the company are 1. Reduce: Use energy-efficient buildings and facilities and cut back on energy usage.
2. Switch: Switch to natural energy.
3. Offset: Absorb and fix CO2 by mangrove planting and the retirement of emissions credits.
* Carbon neutral means that CO2 emitted in the course of a company’s business activities is equivalent to the volume of CO2 absorbed and reduced by way of mangrove planting, use of natural energy and the retirement of emissions credits by such a company.
The environmental footprint caused by business activities of Tokio Marine Group is relatively small compared with companies in the manufacturing industry; however, the size of the Group makes it a large consumer of energy. In order to reduce the environmental footprint from our business activities wherever possible, we have positioned initiatives for reducing the environmental footprint as a key issue for the company. The entire Tokio Marine Group, in Japan and overseas, is making efforts to become carbon neutral* under the following strategic concepts.
3. Concept for Reducing CO2 Emissions


136. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People ■Initiatives toward Achieving Carbon Neutral Status through Mangrove Planting (CO2 Absorption through Mangroves)
Mangrove forests have an effect on the prevention and mitigation of global warming by absorbing and fixing a significant volume of CO2. Under the concept of “Insurance for the Future of the Earth,” Tokio Marine Group has engaged in the Mangrove Planting. 
Project since 1999. As of March 31, 2020, approximately 11,240 hectares of mangrove forest have been planted through this project in nine countries, primarily in Asia.
Each Group company strives to reduce the environmental footprint through energy conservation and resource conservation. At the same time, Tokio Marine Group aims to achieve carbon neutral status on a global basis, offsetting the CO2 emissions generated by its business activities with CO2 fixation * Tokio Marine Holdings requested the Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry (CRIEPI) to evaluate and calculate the amount of CO2 absorption and fixation through mangrove trees and received the evaluation report. Further, a third-party organization (Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC) has been requested to implement the agreed-upon procedures in compliance with Practical Guidelines in Specialized Fields 4400, Engagements to Perform Agreed-Upon Procedures (The Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants) for part of the data used in the report. As a result, Tokio Marine Group has deemed that the effects of CO2 absorption and fixation through mangrove planting have been calculated properly. * The coverage of calculations for Scope 3 (other indirect emissions) was expanded in fiscal 2015.
Scope 1 Direct. 
Scope 2 Indirect. 
Scope 3 Other. 
CO2 absorption and fxation through mangrove planting 130,000 tons. 
Use of natural energy 3,617 tons. 
Gas, gasoline and others 17,478 tons. 
Electricity and others 62,100 tons. 
CO 2 fxation and reduction 133,617 tons CO2 emissions 111,172 tons. 
Business travel and others 31,594 tons ■Raising Employees’ Energy Conservation Awareness. 
Responding to the calls for energy conservation (in particular, the restraint of electricity consumption during peak periods) following the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 2011, Group companies in Japan are implementing Summer & Winter Electricity-Saving Measures as an initiative to firmly establish electricity and energy conservation. Specifically, the companies are making continuous efforts to (1) conserve energy in offices (reducing unneeded light fixtures, placing restrictions on use of items (OA equipment, copiers, etc.) around power outlets and thoroughly managing air conditioning (such as setting temperatures in offices to 28°C in summer and 19°C in winter); and (2) review employees’ work styles (such as encouraging early morning working hours and promoting casual dress). Further, we are making efforts to curb CO2 emissions from energy usage, such as by expanding our use of TV/Web conferencing systems and restricting air travel for business (which also reduces costs).
In addition, Tokio Marine & Nichido endorses COOL CHOICE, a national campaign that encourages all “smart choices” that contribute to countermeasures for global warming, including for Japan’s energy- saving and low-carbon products, services and behavior in order to attain the Japanese government’s target of a 26% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared with fiscal 2013. We are promoting activities to realize a low-carbon society.
4. Initiatives for Energy Conservation and the Reduction of Environmental Footprint * Net zero emissions are achieved when the net of CO2 emissions and energy consumed equals zero.
being allotted to the reduction of emissions at target sites based on the system regarding emissions trading and the obligation to reduce total emissions of greenhouse gases pursuant to the Ordinance on Environmental Preservation to Secure the Health and Safety of Citizens of the Tokyo Metropolitan. 
Area (Environmental Preservation Ordinance).
U.S.-based Philadelphia Insurance Companies has purchased green power to account for 100% of its electricity use over the year in its business activities and has achieved net zero emissions* since fiscal 2013.
and reduction through means such as mangrove planting* and natural energy (green power).
Fiscal 2019 CO2 emissions by Tokio Marine Holdings and its major subsidiaries were 111,172 tons, which was a 4.4% decrease in emissions compared with the previous fiscal year. The effect of CO2 fixation and reduction due to mangrove planting, etc., was 133,617 tons and the carbon neutral status was achieved for the seventh year in succession for the Group overall (Japan and overseas).


137. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People ■ Initiatives to Reduce Paper Use. 
Tokio Marine Group’s volume of paper consumed in fiscal 2019 was 7,204 tons (Japan: 6,279 tons, overseas: 925 tons), which marked a decrease of 5.2% on a year-on-year basis thanks to reduction efforts in and outside Japan. In fiscal 2020, we are taking action under a target of reducing paper volume in Japan by 1% from the previous fiscal year.
As a measure to curb paper consumption, Group companies are distributing mobile terminals (tablets, PCs) to employees as a measure to reform working styles while reducing paper consumption, along with promoting the paperless Raku Raku Tetsuzuki (Quick and Easy Online Procedures) when applying for insurance on their tablet or other device, the use of paperless conferencing, using green procurement of stationery and office supplies, shifting forms and pamphlets to Web formats (i.e., promoting paperless use) and firmly establishing the use of double-sided copying and aggregate printing.
■ Initiatives for Reducing the Environmental Footprint in the Value Chain <Promoting Eco-Safe Driving and the use of recycled auto parts>
From the perspective of creating a recycling-based society and reducing the burden on the environment (i.e., curbing CO2 emissions from the manufacture of parts*), Tokio Marine Group is calling on employees to engage in the Eco-Safe Driving program of The General Insurance Association of Japan and is actively using recycled auto parts when repairing vehicles used by Group companies.
Furthermore, Tokio Marine & Nichido, Nisshin Fire & Marine Insurance and E. design Insurance are taking action in calling for the use of recycled auto parts and proposing the use of these parts to individual and corporate customers that have met with accidents.
• Number of instances of use of recycled auto parts (fiscal 2019, Tokio Marine & Nichido): about 18,424 (a decrease of 12.1% compared with the previous year)
With the approval of customers, Tokio Marine & Nichido is making efforts to expand the use of recycled parts. The company’s actions include distributing pamphlets to boost awareness of the. 
Recycled Parts Usage Promotion Campaign among agents and auto repair shops, as well as creating content for tablet devices to aid these businesses in easily explaining the merits of recycled parts to customers.
<Effective Use of TV/Web conferencing>
By making effective use of TV/Web conferencing, Tokio Marine & Nichido is reducing greenhouse gases resulting from employee business travel and is striving to raise business processing efficiency. Tokio Marine & Nichido has presently introduced and is actively utilizing more than 300 teleconferencing systems at its business bases, and by doing so, is limiting the number of employee business trips and reducing business travel expenses.
■Resource Conservation in Buildings and Facilities. 
Tokio Marine Group’s companies are engaged in initiatives* that consider the environment and disaster prevention in buildings and facilities, as appropriate for each structure.
• Facilities investment value related to energy conservation measures: 1,427 million yen (fiscal 2019,
Tokio Marine & Nichido) * Upgrading to boilers, high-efficiency lighting fixtures (LED, etc.) and air conditioning, etc.
Tokio Marine & Nichido's Nagoya Tokio Marine & Nichido Building, which was completed in 2013, gives high consideration to the environment with features that include double-glazed window glass and LED lighting throughout the entire building. This building has earned the S-rank, the highest rank under the Comprehensive Assessment System for Building Environmental Efficiency (CASBEE)
Nagoya, a building environmental performance evaluation system operated by Nagoya City.
This building has secured the top-tier Platinum ranking under the DBJ Green Building Certification. 
System operated jointly by the Development Bank of Japan and Japan Real Estate Institute.
Furthermore, in January 2015 Tokio Marine & Nichido was certified as an excellent Eco-Oriented. 
Business by Nagoya City due to voluntary and proactive efforts to be kind to the environment in its business activities. It also won the 22nd Aichi Machinami Architecture Award in recognition of its contribution to the formation of a pleasant local environment, and in December 2015 won the. 
Outstanding Performance Award for Eco-Oriented Businesses certified by Nagoya City.
In addition, Tokio Marine & Nichido was recognized by Osaka Prefecture for initiatives and achievements in reducing greenhouse gases in offices and won the Excellence Award in the Osaka. 
Stop Global Warming Awards.
At Group companies overseas, as in Japan, we are taking measures to conserve energy as appropriate for each building or facility. As an example, Tokio Marine Centre (Singapore) has been actively introducing environmentally conscious measures that include the installation of energy-saving air- conditioning equipment and lighting fixtures, installation of water-saving equipment that reuses rainwater and placement of greenery.
* Recycled parts are said to have an effect in reducing CO2 emissions compared with new parts (23.1 kg for a bumper, 97.3 kg for a door, etc. (Source: Survey by The General Insurance Association of Japan))


138. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People *1 In 1996, the Ministry of the Environment formulated Eco-Action 21 to provide a wide range of small- and medium-sized enterprises with easy strategies for becoming aware of their relation to the environment, establishing environmental targets and taking environmental action on their own. The Ministry has continued to promote the program until the present day. *2 Eco-Action 21 integrates the environmental management system, environmental performance assessments and environmental report into one. Taking part in the Eco-Action 21 program paves the way for small- and medium-sized enterprises to undertake independent and proactive initiatives related to environmental considerations and publish the results of these initiatives together as an environmental action report. *3 Business content: Established in 1986: (1) Business consulting for automobile maintenance shops, etc., (2) Technical guidance for personnel engaged in automobile maintenance at motor distributors, and (3) Research, development and sale of software, ledgers and equipment aimed at enhancing sophistication of automobile maintenance. 
Note: Figures for all environmental performance indicators are provided on a global basis.
■Environmental Accounting (1) Environmental Conservation Cost (Tokio Marine & Nichido) (2)Environmental Performance Indicators Related to Environmental Benefits (Tokio Marine Holdings) (3) Economic Benefits of Environmental Conservation Initiatives (Tokio Marine & Nichido)
Source: Ministry of the Environment website (in Japanese)
Environmental costs. 
FY2017 FY2018 FY2019. 
Investment (million yen) Expenses (million yen) Investment (million yen) Expenses (million yen) Investment (million yen) Expenses (million yen)
Business area costs 234 232 874 516 571 403. 
Upstream/ downstream costs 0 25 0 27 0 28. 
Management costs 0 22 0 42 0 19. 
R&D costs 0 87 0 88 0 105. 
Social contribution activity costs 0 127 0 121 0 121. 
Environmental remediation costs 0 0 0 0 0 0. 
Total 234 495 874 794 571 676. 
Environmental performance indicator FY2017 FY2018 FY2019. 
Total energy input (GJ) 783,048 732,675 776,709. 
Water resource input (m3) 602,169 570,832 632,203. 
Greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO2) 86,543 82,209 79,578. 
Waste emissions (t) 2,072 2,248 2,285. 
Environmental performance indicator FY2017 (million yen) FY2018 (million yen) FY2019 (million yen)
Cost reduction 206 206 244. 
Revenue 0 0 0. 
Total 206 206 244 <Certification and Registration of Eco-Action 21 (Environmental Management System for. 
Small- and Medium-Sized Enterprises*1)>
Through acquisition of certification and registration of Eco-Action 21*2, all employees in all fields of business activity at Tokio Marine & Nichido Auto Support Center*3 act in a way that is in harmony with the global environment and that considers how to improve the environment. Everyone works independently and proactively toward the sustainable development of society.


139. 
Relevant goal Relevant target Contribution to the target achievement 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment All content in general. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People. 
Maintaining and enhancing the physical and mental health of our employees, the driving force enabling us to continue as a company that provides safety and security to customers and is trusted and chosen by customers, is a critical theme of the utmost priority. Each Tokio Marine Group company has been making efforts to create an environment in which employees can work with enthusiasm by providing both physical and mental health care for its employees.
1. Promoting Health and Productivity Management >>
Tokio Marine Group views employee health as a critical management issue. For further promoting health and productivity management, we created the Group Chief Wellness Officer (CWO) position and formulated the Tokio Marine Group Wellness Charter in April 2019. We intend to instill health and productivity management more firmly on a Group-wide basis.
2. Health and Productivity Management / Occupational Health and Safety Initiatives and. 
External Evaluation >>
Each Tokio Marine Group company has been making efforts to create an environment in which employees can work with enthusiasm by providing both physical and mental health care for its employees. These initiatives have been recognized by various external organizations.
❖ Relation between Written Content and SDGs ❖ Section Composition ■Tokio Marine Group’s Health and Productivity Management Vision. 
Tokio Marine Group regards employees as one of our most valuable assets and their health as a critical management issue. We seek to ensure the physical and mental health of employees so that they can work enthusiastically with higher levels of satisfaction and motivation, support health promotion efforts of customers, local communities and society as a whole and help to resolve related social issues. By doing so, we ultimately aim to achieve the Group’s sustainable growth.
Promoting Health and Productivity Management 1. Promoting Health and Productivity Management ■Tokio Marine Group Wellness Charter. 
In order to instill Tokio Marine Group’s vision of and thinking behind health and productivity management throughout Group companies in and outside Japan, we have formulated the Tokio. 
Marine Group Wellness Charter as health-related guidelines for employees. To disseminate the charter to Group companies overseas, we created both Japanese and English versions.
<Declaration of Health and Productivity Management>
Tokio Marine & Nichido, a major Tokio Marine Group company, is promoting an array of initiatives under its Declaration of Health and Productivity Management, which states that employees represent the most important driving force in becoming and continuing to grow as a “Good Company” chosen by customers, and that Tokio Marine & Nichido proactively seeks to maintain and promote the physical and mental health of employees and their families.


140. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People. 
Tokio Marine Group Wellness Charter and Declaration of Health and Productivity Management. 
Measures to enhance health literacy Measures to promote health Measures to prevent lifestyle-related diseases Measures to realize a better working life. 
Health investment (measures) Indicators for employees’ awareness and behavior changes. 
Management issues to be resolved through health and productivity management. 
Regards employees as one of its most valuable assets and ensures the physical and mental health of employees and their families so that they can work enthusiastically. 
Efects of health investment. 
Group-wide implementation (through interaction between Group companies in Japan and those overseas)
Individual. 
Social value. 
Corporate value. 
Organization. 
Indicators for ultimate health-related targets. 
Measures to enhance health literacy (Web-based learning tool: e-learning) (Electronic distribution of health information newsletters) (Encouraging employees to take relevant certifcation tests)
Enhancing health literacy (Questions in employee attitude surveys)
Improving medical treatment status (Rate of employees continuously receiving treatment) (Rate of employees not receiving treatment)
Improving lifestyle habits (Rate of employees with physical exercise habit-related risk) (Rate of employees with dietary habit-related risk) (Rate of employees with sleeping habit-related risk) (Smoking rate) (Rate of employees maintaining appropriate BMI)
Increasing the rates of employees receiving various health checkups and examinations (Rate of employees receiving periodic health checkups and checkups for lifestyle-related diseases) (Rate of employees receiving cancer examinations) (Rate of female employees receiving cancer examinations) (Rate of employees receiving secondary examinations)
Increasing awareness and eforts for work style reform (Results of employee questionnaires on work style reform) (Number of workplaces utilizing teleworking, etc.) (Total overtime hours)
Maintaining and promoting physical health (Rate of anomalies in health checkups) (Rate of employees at high risk of diseases) (Subjective views of own health)
Maintaining and promoting mental health (Number of employees with a high stress level) (Number of workplaces with a high stress level) (Job satisfaction levels)
Improving working conditions (Number of employees working long hours) (Paid leave taken)
Improving presenteeism Check by attribute (gender, age, position, department, etc.)
Improving organization’s vibrancy level. 
Improving absenteeism (absence rate and rate of employees on leave) Check by attribute (gender, age, position, department, etc.)
Higher employee satisfaction and motivation. 
Achieving sustainable growth through higher market value and brand value * The chart shows a simplifed view of the relationship between each item of health investment (measure) and investment efects for ease of understanding.
Contributing to the resolution of issues in local communities and society; Supporting health and productivity management of corporate customers and agents. 
More active roles of women. 
Organizational vitalization. 
Higher productivity. 
Improving individuals’ work engagement Check by attribute (gender, age, position, department, etc.)
Measures to promote health (Encouraging employees to carry their own health declaration card) (“Get Healthier” initiative: individual eforts) (“Get Healthier” initiative: organizational eforts) (Health Promotion Months) (Measures against secondhand smoke)
Health support for women (Cancer examinations for women) (Holding health promotion seminars for women) (Setting up a Mothers’ Room)
Measures against overwork (Work style reform by department) (Interviews with industrial physicians) (Measures against overtime work, and systems of leave)
Measures to help employees balance work with medical treatment (Collaboration among employees, their superiors, industrial health staf and external organizations)
Measures related to satisfaction and work engagement levels (Promoting teleworking, etc.) (Providing healthy and nutritionally balanced lunch menus) (Setting up a counseling desk and holding seminars) (Encouraging employees to take paid leave)
Mental health measures (Promoting line care eforts) (Interviews with new employees) (Measures for early detection and treatment) (Providing support to employees with a high stress level) (Supporting return to work and preventing relapse)
Measures to prevent disease aggravation (Approach to supporting employees at high risk of diseases) (Specifc health guidance) (Support for stop-smoking eforts) (Anti-obesity program for younger employees)
Measures for early detection (Periodic health checkups and checkups for lifestyle-related diseases) (Cancer examinations) (Encouraging employees to receive secondary examinations) ■Relationship between Tokio Marine Group’s Health and Productivity Management Vision and Health-Related Measures. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido, a major Tokio Marine Group company, has visualized and clarified the relationship between the Group’s Health and Productivity Management Vision and health-related measures. In this way, the company is undertaking various health and productivity management measures while remaining keenly aware of management issues it seeks to resolve.


141. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People ■Promotion Structure. 
Overseen by the Group CEO, our efforts to promote health and productivity management are led by the Group Chief Wellness Officer (CWO), who is also the Group Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO), and the Wellness Promotion Team set up within Tokio Marine Holdings. We are also making collaborative health promotion efforts jointly with the Health Insurance Association.
Additionally, with the aim of extending efforts to ensure employee health to all employees working across Japan, Tokio Marine & Nichido has established a system of collaboration between industrial health staff (including industrial physicians and public health nurses) stationed at 46 locations nationwide and key persons appointed in each workplace respectively for human resources skills development and health promotion. Using this Tokio Marine & Nichido’s effort as a benchmark, we are implementing a similar system in other Group companies in a phased manner.
2. Health and Productivity Management / Occupational Health and Safety Initiatives and External Evaluation ■ Legal Compliance. 
The Industrial Safety and Health Act, Health Promotion Act and other relevant laws and regulations form the basis of all our initiatives in this area. We comply with these laws and regulations in every aspect, from conducting periodic health checkups and stress checks to protecting personal information.
Each Group company has established an industrial safety and health management framework in accordance with the Industrial Safety and Health Act to fulfill its obligation to ensure the appropriate consideration of safety. Specifically, Group companies appoint an industrial physician and health officer and set up a health committee at each domestic business site with more than 50 employees.
The committee, composed of an industrial physician, health officer, persons in charge of health management and persons selected from the employee labor union, meets once per month to deliberate on measures for physical and mental health maintenance and promotion and improving the workplace environment as well as measures for preventing health disorders, including those resulting from overwork.
■ Defining Priority Areas for Efforts to Ensure Employee Health. 
For its efforts to ensure employee health, as described in the Tokio Marine Group’s Health and. 
Productivity Management Vision, Tokio Marine & Nichido has defined four priority measures based on “Data Health” plans created in collaboration with the Health Insurance Association as well as the results of analysis of health checkup and various other health-related data.
<Measures to Enhance Health Literacy>
We regard health literacy as a basis of health actions and work to raise the level of health literacy among employees so that they become mindful of their own health and that of people around them, willingly learn about health measures and voluntarily make health promotion efforts.
<Measures to Promote Health>
We believe ongoing efforts by employees themselves are essential in maintaining and promoting their health. We strive to enhance the health of all employees by implementing measures to support their efforts, providing necessary tools and encouraging individual and organizational efforts.


142 “Good Company”
Company’s health measures along with employees’ eforts. 
Compliance with the Industrial Safety and Health Act and other relevant laws. 
Measures to enhance health literacy Measures to promote health Individual and organizational eforts for health maintenance and promotion. 
Measures to prevent lifestyle-related diseases Avoid future health risks and reduce rate of people with tendency toward these diseases. 
Measures to realize a better working life. 
Provide various learning tools. 
Encourage employees to take relevant certifcation tests. 
Hold meetings of the Health Committee, encourage acquisition of health ofcer qualifcation, prevent overwork, promote reform of working styles, protect personal information, etc.
“Get Healthier” initiative. 
Health support for women. 
Mental health measures. 
Work engagement. 
Measures against secondhand smoke. 
Health Promotion Months. 
Conduct health checkups (examinations)
Specifc health guidance. 
Follow-up after health checkups. 
Measures to prevent disease aggravation Help employees balance work with medical treatment. 
Support stop-smoking eforts. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People <Measures to Prevent Lifestyle-Related Diseases>
A lifestyle-related disease is a health issue that greatly affects both the current life of an employee and his or her life after retirement. As an effort to prevent the onset and aggravation of lifestyle- related diseases, we proactively provide support by industrial health staff as necessary based on the results of health checkups.
<Measures to Realize a Better Working Life>
In order to ensure the physical and mental health of employees, attention needs to be paid not only to the health status of individuals but also to factors affecting it, such as the workplace environment and their attitude toward work. We implement mental health measures led by supervisors in each workplace and industrial health staff and help employees balance work with medical treatment so as to enable them to work with vitality and with a higher level of work engagement and lead a fulfilling life.
■ Examples of Major Health Measures <“Get Healthier” Initiative> [Applicable priority measures]
Measures to enhance health literacy; Measures to promote health [Details]
This is an all-participation health promotion initiative designed to enable all employees to maintain and promote their health. As part of this initiative, we have been holding the Health Promotion Months campaign in every October and November for 30 years since 1990. We have also been working to increase the rate of participation and achieve better effects in improving lifestyle habits by making adjustments to how we conduct the initiative. Adjustments to date include providing menus of activities (“My Challenge” and “Our Challenge” programs) to support individual and workplace efforts, respectively. We have also appointed health promotion key persons in each workplace, introduced a web-based version and established a President’s Award program. In fiscal 2020, we started providing a course to learn lifestyle habits suited for the times of COVID-19.
In addition, we have been evaluating our health measures by analyzing the improvement status of employee health, stress levels and lifestyle habits as well as effects on productivity and work engagement. As a result, we have confirmed that participation in the “Get Healthier” initiative has led to a reduction in risks related to obesity, physical exercise habits and physical activities, and that offices and branches participating in the “Our Challenge” program show lower productivity loss (or loss resulting from presenteeism). The results have also revealed that employees participating in the “Get Healthier” initiative show a higher level of work engagement, which is less likely to decline in the following year. Accordingly, we will continue to undertake the initiative while striving to increase the participation rate.
<Measures for Employees at High Risk of Lifestyle-Related Diseases> [Applicable priority measures]
Measures to prevent lifestyle-related diseases [Details]
We determine how and to whom we provide support using blood pressure and blood sugar level indicators as selection criteria. We conduct an interview by an industrial physician with all applicable employees and encourage appropriate medical treatment and behavior change by recommending medical consultation, collaborating with their primary doctors and providing health guidance by public health nurses. We follow through until there is an improvement in their data. As a result of these efforts, over 70% of the applicable employees have shown lower blood pressures.


143. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People. 
Moreover, the results of multi-year analysis on health checkup data revealed that 50% of employees showing high blood pressure (levels II and III in some guidelines) did not apply to these levels in the previous year. To prevent aggravation and suppress an increase in the number of employees developing higher blood pressures, our public health nurses are providing health guidance and disseminating related information via e-mail to employees with level-I high blood pressure.
Through these measures, the rate of employees at high risk of diseases has declined over the past three years. We aim for further improvement by continuing efforts both in terms of supporting employees at high risk of diseases and preventing an increase in the number of such employees.
<Anti-Obesity Program for Younger Employees> [Applicable priority measures]
Measures to prevent lifestyle-related diseases [Details]
This is a three-month program to help younger employees (below the age of 40 and showing a body-mass index (BMI) of 25 or higher) to reduce weight to a desirable level. Over the course of the program, participants work to change their lifestyle habits, including diet and physical exercise, to reduce weight and counter metabolic syndrome. Some 90% of the participants have completed the program, while about 70% have lost weight. The rate of obesity among younger employees has also been on the decrease. Another confirmed outcome is that the participants show lower risks of high blood pressure, fats and blood sugar levels and better eating habits than non-participants.
Additionally, we have found that, among employees who have shown improved neutral fat levels or eating habits, the ratio of those showing higher productivity (or lower presenteeism) is meaningfully high. The implication is that better lifestyle habits are linked to weight loss and higher productivity.
We will continue to implement the program while verifying its positive effects.
<Health Support for Women> [Applicable priority measures]
Measures to promote health; Measures to enhance health literacy [Details]
Our measures to support the health of female employees include holding seminars and providing a variety of information. In fiscal 2019, a seminar by an outside lecturer specialized in health management of working women was held with the participation of all employees via our corporate satellite network (CSN).
Regarding the examples of providing a variety of information, we send internal notifications, individual notices of an upcoming health checkup and e-mail messages as a means to encourage female employees to receive examinations for breast and uterine cancers. In an effort to increase their motivation to receive the screening, we include in these notices various data, such as the prevalence and mortality of these cancers; the cure rate following early detection; screening rate by age group; and Q&As about cancer examinations.
With a view to enhancing employees’ literacy for health disorders specific to women, we electronically distribute health newsletters specialized in health maintenance and promotion for women. By sending these newsletters and other related information to all employees, we intend to communicate and facilitate an understanding of our health support measures for female employees in the hope that they provide an opportunity for employees to think about the health of women around them, including families and colleagues.
As an additional measure, Tokio Marine & Nichido set up a Mothers’ Room within its head office where many female employees are working. It is a space used by female employees for lactation or resting when they are not feeling well because of a hormonal imbalance. It has been well received by them as a comfortable space, and it also fulfills the need to return to work early after giving child birth.
<Mental Health Care> [Applicable priority measures]
Measures to realize a better working life [Details]
Each Tokio Marine Group company actively promotes mental health measures as we recognize the importance of pursuing the maintenance and improvement of employees’ mental health in terms of corporate management.
Tokio Marine & Nichido has established the Basic Policy on Mental Health Measures. Under this policy, supervisors at the workplace and industrial health staff collaborate to proactively implement various measures. These include efforts to maintain sound mental health, measures to encourage early detection and treatment as well as measures to care for employees with mental health issues.
Specific efforts include setting up a mental health counseling desk and using stress checks to promote self-care and analyze issues at an organizational level in order to maintain a good workplace environment. Going a step beyond line care efforts in the workplace, the company has established


144. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People the Healthy Food and Food Environment Certification Program. In recognition of these initiatives, the company has been included in the “Case Study Collection of Corporate Dietary Education Giving. 
Consideration to Employee Health” compiled by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.
As proactive measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 at its employee cafeteria, the company has installed bottles of hand sanitizers, reduced the number of seats to maintain social distancing, encouraged shorter stays and provided takeout menus.
a system for new employees, in particular, to check their health conditions periodically and provide early support using a multi-faceted approach involving public health nurses, persons in charge of human resources and other relevant parties.
Since 2012, the company has also been making efforts to spread the concept of work engagement, which is considered a primordial prevention measure for mental illnesses. As we have confirmed through analysis a link between worsening mental health and absenteeism, we will continue to implement the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle and help employees work with enthusiasm.
For employees working in the claims service departments, the company has also launched a mind care program to enable them to always maintain good mental health conditions as professionals when facing customers who have encountered an accident or disaster.
<Creating a Comfortable Workplace Environment> [Applicable priority measures]
Measures to realize a better working life [Details]
Tokio Marine Group is not only satisfying various standards stipulated under laws and regulations related to the workplace environment but also promoting the creation of a comfortable workplace environment that takes into consideration lighting, noise, ventilation, temperature, humidity and other ergonomic aspects. At the same time, we are working to prevent health problems caused by sedentary work by installing stand-up meeting spaces and other office facilities to increase the amount of physical activity and encouraging employees to have a break standing up.
<Provision of a Healthy and Nutritionally Balanced Lunch Menus at Head Office Employee. 
Cafeteria> [Applicable priority measures]
Measures to realize a better working life [Details]
Tokio Marine & Nichido offers healthy and nutritionally balanced lunch menus at its head office employee cafeteria. These include a TABLE FOR TWO menu to donate a part of its price to school meal programs in developing countries; a Menu for Supporting Disaster-affected Areas to also donate a part of its sales to areas affected by the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake; and a Sustainable Menu using safe and quality food that have the Global Good Agricultural Practices (G.A.P.) certification. The cafeteria has received the highest three-star SmartMeal rating in the food service category under. 
Sustainability Performance Data (Percentage of employees who received health checks, industrial accidents, etc.) (Reference) Tokio Marine & Nichido’s Fiscal 2019 Health and Productivity Management and Health. 
Maintenance Policy and Core Measures­>>


145. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People <Example Verification Results for KPIs for Entire Health and Productivity Management Efforts> [Presenteeism]
This KPI improved in fiscal 2018 as a result of the continuous implementation of health measures.
Another attributing factor is that fiscal 2018 was the year during which the company announced and communicated to employees its Declaration of Health and Productivity Management, distributed a “Get Healthier” challenge card (a card carried by each employee showing his or her own health declaration) and conducted or launched health-related e-learning and other programs. These are believed to have raised employees’ health awareness and led to an improvement in presenteeism.
[Work Engagement]
This KPI had originally been at a higher level compared with the national and industry averages. It has remained high due to the continuous implementation of measures to realize a better work life, including work engagement seminars and work style reform. The company intends to maintain the level and will work for further improvement.
Other KPIs for the entire health and productivity management efforts are absenteeism (absence rate and rate of employees on leave) and the organization’s vibrancy level. As these KPIs relate to a range of factors, the company will continue to work for improvement by monitoring changes in these KPIs and analyzing related factors.
KPI Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018. 
Presenteeism 1 –0.25% +0.25%
KPI Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018. 
Work engagement 1 +0.74% +0.37% * Rate of increase/decrease using fiscal 2016 as the baseline at 1, with “+” representing an improvement * Using the World Health Organization’s Health and Work Performance Questionnaire (WHO-HPQ) * Rate of increase/decrease using fiscal 2016 as the baseline at 1, with “+” representing an improvement * Using the units of measurement recommended in the New Simplified Set of Occupational Stress Survey Questions ■ Evaluation and Improvement of Health and Productivity Management Initiatives (PDCA)
While discussing with management the analysis results of various health-related data, including the results of health checkups, stress checks and employee questionnaires, Tokio Marine & Nichido defines key performance indicators (KPIs) for its entire health and productivity management efforts (e.g., improvement of presenteeism), intermediary KPIs (e.g., rate of anomalies in healthy checkups) and indicators for awareness and behavior changes (e.g., improvement in lifestyle habits and rates of employees receiving health checkups and other examinations) linked to these intermediary KPIs and respective targets.
The company monitors the trends of KPIs for individual measures, verifies the effectiveness of each measure and works for improvement while rotating the PDCA cycle. As for its entire health and productivity management efforts, the company also rotates the PDCA cycle by continuously evaluating and analyzing the corresponding KPIs, reviewing the conditions by attribute (gender, age, department, position, geographical area, etc.) and checking if there are health issues for which new measures should be considered.
Toward realizing Tokio Marine Group’s Health and Productivity Management Vision, which serves as a framework to evaluate its initiatives to enhance its corporate value in a sustainable manner, the company also verifies the impact on external evaluation on a continuous basis.


146. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People ■Selected as Health & Productivity Stock and Recognized under METI’s 2019 Certified Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organizations Recognition Program. 
As a result of these initiatives, Tokio Marine Holdings was selected as a “2020 Health & Productivity. 
Stock” co-sponsored by METI and the Tokyo Stock Exchange for its outstanding health and productivity management for the fifth consecutive year since 2016.
At the same time, many Tokio Marine Group companies were recognized under METI’s 2020 Certified. 
Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organizations Recognition Program. In the large enterprise category, Tokio Marine Holdings, Tokio Marine & Nichido and Tokio Marine & Nichido Life were selected for the fourth consecutive year; Tokio Marine & Nichido Systems and Tokio Marine & Nichido Medical Service for the third consecutive year; Tokio Marine & Nichido Risk Consulting for the second consecutive year; and Nisshin Fire & Marine Insurance, Tokio Marine Assistance and. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Outsourcing Management for the first time. Of these, Tokio Marine Holdings,
Tokio Marine & Nichido, Tokio Marine & Nichido Life, Tokio Marine & Nichido Medical Service, Tokio. 
Marine & Nichido Systems and Tokio Marine & Nichido Risk Consulting were in the top 500 group and certified as “White 500” companies.
In the small- to medium-sized enterprise category, the program recognized E. design Insurance,
Tokio Marine Millea SAST Insurance, Tokio Marine & Nichido Partners Tohoku, Tokio Marine & Nichido. 
Partners East, Tokio Marine & Nichido Partners TOKIO, Tokio Marine & Nichido Partners Tokai Hokuriku,
Tokio Marine & Nichido Partners Kansai, Tokio Marine & Nichido Partners Chugoku Shikoku, Tokio. 
Marine & Nichido Partners Kyushu, Tokio Marine & Nichido Anshin Consulting and MMC Insurance. 
Services.
Efforts to ensure the physical and mental health of employees and their families, enhance health literacy and voluntarily and continuously maintain health are becoming increasingly important as they form the foundation of employee productivity and make the company’s products and services an attractive option for customers. We will use this selection as motivation to work to enhance the health of employees and strengthen our support to corporate customers as well as further expand and develop health and productivity management.
Building a Society Based on Health and Longevity to Ensure Peace of Mind (in Support of Customer’s. 
Health and Productivity Management) >> <Example Verification Results for External Evaluation> • Evaluating the impact of career choice popularity rankings on recruitment (Results of verification:
High rankings have been maintained in company popularity surveys among job-seeking undergraduates conducted by Mynavi Corporation and Nikkei Inc. since being selected for the first time as a Health & Productivity Stock.) • Identifying changes in the number of corporate customers to which Tokio Marine Group has provided support in health and productivity management (Results of verification: There has been an increase in the number of corporate customers being recognized under the Certified Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organizations Recognition Program sponsored by the. 
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI).)
Building a Society Based on Health and Longevity to Ensure Peace of Mind (in Support of Customer’s. 
Health and Productivity Management) >>
Health issues change constantly in line with changes in the social environment and accompanying changes in the workplace environment. In recent years, in response to a reform of work styles of women, we have been providing finely tuned support to health-related issues specific to women by leveraging our workplace-based industrial health system.
As another measure to support the health promotion efforts of employees, we operate sports facilities, including a sports field and gymnasium, in which we have invested some 360 million yen. We also offer a variety of welfare systems, including welfare programs that provide a menu of activities to encourage the use of fitness clubs. These are believed to have had a positive impact on the effectiveness of individual health and productivity management measures.
In the future as well, we will anticipate an impact of these changes on employee health and support work styles with higher productivity from the health aspect by preventing health issues from becoming prevalent.


147. 
Relevant goal Relevant target Cotribution to the target achivement 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in economic life. 
Utilizing Diverse Human Resources 8.5 Achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value. 
All content in general. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People. 
Tokio Marine Group’s philosophy on human resources has been positioned as “Tokio Marine Group – Our People.” Based on this philosophy, we are working on the strategic development of diverse human resources, both in Japan and overseas, toward the realization of a global insurance group.
The Group’s overall human resources development and utilization are managed by the Group Chief. 
Human Resources Officer (CHRO), while the Board of Directors and Management Meeting of each. 
Group company monitor the individual implementation status.
Tokio Marine Group - Our People. 
Our people are the most important asset of our Group and a key driver of our Good. 
Company vision.
We aim to attract and retain the best talent in every aspect of our business to ensure we deliver safety and security to our customers and their communities.
Our people bring passion and a challenging spirit to their endeavors and we provide them opportunities for career development and ongoing personal growth.
Our people embody diversity and we value inclusion as a truly global company. We work hard to create a business environment where we can achieve our full potential as we continue our endless journey to be a Good Company.
1. Fair Personnel System and Management >>
Tokio Marine Group aims to “continuously build an open and dynamic corporate culture that enables each and every employee to demonstrate his or her creative potential” and to enhance employee motivation through a fair personnel system and management.
3. Utilizing Diverse Human Resources >>
Tokio Marine Group promotes diversity and inclusion throughout the Group by progressively moving forward in encouraging female employees to take active roles and creating a workplace in which older employees with a wealth of knowledge and experience can take active roles as well as promoting the employment of persons with disabilities.
2. Development of Human Resources >>
Tokio Marine Group considers its employees to be its most valuable assets and is aiming to enhance the growth of each employee and boost the collective capabilities of the organization through comprehensive employee training centered on on-the-job training (OJT) and ongoing support for self-development.
4. Reform of Working Styles >>
Given changes in family and community environments surrounding employees, Tokio Marine. 
Group has been striving to reform working styles with the aim of driving sustainable growth of the company and employees and fostering a corporate culture in which employees respect each other’s diverse values.
❖Relation between Written Content and SDGs ❖Section Composition. 
Developing and Utilizing Diverse Human Resources


148. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People 2. Development of Human Resources. 
Tokio Marine Group aims to enhance employee satisfaction and motivation through a fair personnel system and management. The Group also endeavors to realize a corporate culture in which all employees respect human rights through various initiatives such as human rights training.
■Enhancing Productivity and Corporate Value. 
Tokio Marine Group works to enhance employees’ job satisfaction and motivation mainly through a fair personnel system. Moreover, we respond to changes in the environment and ensure appropriate management of personnel and labor risks. Through these initiatives, we strive to increase productivity and corporate value.
The environment surrounding Tokio Marine Group, in particular, has been undergoing rapid changes, including technological advancements, globalization and demographic shifts. Consequently, it has become increasingly important to accurately capture these highly uncertain changes in the external environment and reflect them in corporate management. As a system to stably secure management personnel with high levels of expertise and management capability to respond to such significant changes on a global basis, Tokio Marine Holdings introduced a new personnel system in April 2019.
Sustainability Performance Data (Number of employees, basic employee data, etc.) >> ■Raising Employee Satisfaction Levels. 
Tokio Marine Group has created a group-wide platform for the implementation of a Group employee attitude survey once each year. In fiscal 2019, the survey was given to 5,220 employees in 15 companies with individual companies such as Tokio Marine & Nichido and Tokio Marine & Nichido. 
Life conducting the same initiatives. Although employee satisfaction levels were high on the whole throughout the Group, we are aiming to further boost employee satisfaction by reflecting opinions of employees regularly gathered by each company in general management and personnel measures and by providing feedback related to organizational management.
Sustainability Performance Data (Employee attitude survey) >> ■Sound Labor-Management Relations. 
In Tokio Marine Group, Tokio Marine & Nichido and other Group companies conduct good-faith negotiations and discussions with labor unions on a wide range of topics, from payroll, personnel systems and occupational health and safety to management policies, to achieve sound corporate growth and maintain and improve various working conditions of union members.
Sustainability Performance Data (Labor union participation rate)­>>
Utilizing People Analytics for its strategic work force planning(PDF/347KB)
Utilizing AI Technology for Recruiting and Hiring(PDF/347KB)
The power of our people is the driving force for realizing our vision, “To Be a Good Company.” The. 
Tokio Marine Group Spirit has been built up by overcoming numerous adversities and constantly taking on challenges since our earliest days that focus on the five areas of taking on challenges, openness and dynamism, customer orientation, social contribution (contribute to society and people) and a global perspective. This spirit has been passed down over the generations and even now is the starting point for individual ideas and the source of human resources with a high sense of purpose who boldly take on challenges. In addition, based on the Tokio Marine Group Spirit, we have fostered over many years a nurturing culture in which both the person doing the guiding and the person being guided grow and develop. We are working to spread and pass down this nurturing culture to the entire Group with the aim of having our Group companies around the world work together on the development of human resources.
■Aiming to be the Most Successful Company in Japan Where People Can Grow and Develop. 
For Tokio Marine Group, people and the trust built up by those people are the source of all our competitiveness, and thus human resources development is an extremely important theme. Each. 
Tokio Marine Group company is building skill development programs and personnel systems appropriate for the characteristics of their respective businesses based on the Tokio Marine Group. 
Spirit. As an example, Tokio Marine & Nichido aims to be the most successful company in Japan where people can grow and develop in order to become a company which provides customers with a sense of security, is selected by customers and constantly grows, as stated in its mid-term business plan. We are also creating a framework within our corporate systems that supports self-help in order to meet the idea that each employee has the desire to grow.
Specifically, Tokio Marine & Nichido regularly conducts interviews between supervisors and their subordinates so that each employee can realize his or her own career vision. In the interviews, employees share what they want to become and their strengths and weaknesses, and challenging roles are assigned that lead to the growth of respective subordinates. The year-round dialogue between supervisors and subordinates concerning on-the-job training (OJT), off-the-job training (Off-JT) and planned self-development efforts seeks to enhance each employee’s competencies (in behavior and thinking).
In addition to a wide range of correspondence-based training activities, including Rank-Specific. 
Training, Optional Training, Specialization Training and e-Learning services, Tokio Marine & Nichido actively sends young employees to short-term overseas training programs and to business schools and law schools in Japan and abroad, universities in non-English-speaking countries and other institutions to develop personnel who possess a broad perspective, international sensibilities and a high degree of specialized knowledge.
1. Fair Personnel System and Management


149. 
U-turn transfers An application type transfer in which employees in jobs not subject to relocation can take on the challenge of new jobs outside the traditional framework with a temporary relocation on the condition that they must return to their original localities. 
I-turn transfers An application type transfer in which employees in jobs not subject to relocation can continue working after changing localities due to reasons such as marriage or a parent’s or spouse’s relocation. Employees are able to relocate while maintaining their position in the company at the same level of compensation.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People 3. Utilizing Diverse Human Resources ■Job Request System. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido provides employees with opportunities to choose their jobs to realize their own career vision. The company has introduced the Job Request System to support employees in building their careers and to help strengthen the independence of employees based on choice and self-responsibility. It is a key personnel system for maintaining and expanding the energy of employees by allowing them to apply for jobs they want to try. In particular, locally based employees in jobs not subject to relocation can take on the challenge of a new job in a different location, or continue working after changing localities due to reasons such as marriage or a spouse’s relocation, by applying through the Job Request System (U-turn and I-turn transfers*).
In addition to the Job Request System, the company offers employees the opportunity to declare their wishes regarding job transfers and future career visions from the perspective of putting the right people in the right jobs based on their career visions and transfer wishes.
*U-turn and I-turn *Not all employee relocation requests are approved.
Human Resources Development Cycle (Tokio Marine & Nichido)
Sustainability Performance Data (Employee training)­>>
Sustainability Performance Data (Job Request System)­>>
Diversity Policy. 
Tokio Marine Group believes the power of its people is the driving force for realizing its vision of becoming a “Good Company.” For the insurance business, which is said to be a “people’s business,” the people involved and the trust created by those people are the source of our competitive advantage. We will promote diversity on a global basis to maximize the potential and facilitate the active participation of some 40,000 employees worldwide regardless of gender, age, nationality or disability, and strengthen our competitive advantage.
Tokio Marine & Nichido Diversity and Inclusion Promotion System. 
Tokio Marine Group believes it essential that motivated and capable employees who possess a diverse sense of values should exert their capabilities to the full extent, regardless of gender, age, nationality, disability or other attributes, to improve the quality of the products and services that it provides to customers worldwide. Specific initiatives pertaining to the promotion of diversity and inclusion group-wide include encouraging female employees to take active roles, creating a workplace in which older employees with a wealth of knowledge and experience can take active roles and promoting the employment of persons with disabilities.


150. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People ■ Empowering Female Employees. 
Tokio Marine Group regards the promotion of diversity and inclusion is synonymous with its growth strategy, and the Group CEO has been stressing the importance of such efforts at various meetings and seminars via a top management message. With the Diversity &
Inclusion Promotion Team established within the Human. 
Resources Department taking the lead, we are also accelerating our initiatives to promote the active engagement of female employees. At Tokio Marine Group consolidated companies in Japan, we aim to provide customers with products and services that achieve even greater customer satisfaction by further empowering and promoting the growth of female employees in keeping with the Group’s. 
Corporate Philosophy. For this purpose, we provide a variety of opportunities to every female employee at each Group company for autonomously building their careers and empowering them in an even wider range of fields. In fiscal 2019, we launched Tokio Marine Group Women's Career. 
College (TWCC), an internal program for female employees of Tokio Marine Group companies in. 
Japan. It provides the opportunity for willing and aspiring participants to think about and increase awareness of their own careers as they motivate each other and get an insight into diserve values and philosophies.
Tokio Marine Holdings was selected four times as a “Nadeshiko Brand” in fiscal 2013, fiscal 2015, fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018 in recognition of group-wide efforts to empower women and performance in terms of results. Further, the president announced his Declaration of Action ("Male Leaders for. 
Acceleration of the Active Participation of Women who Shine") as well as the vision of the 30% Club. 
Japan established in May 2019.
Tokio Marine & Nichido Career Service and Tokio Marine & Nichido Risk Consulting were granted “Eruboshi” certification by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare in April 2016 and January 2017, respectively, as outstanding companies in terms of conditions related to promoting the active participation of women. The certification has three stages depending on the number of assessment items fulfilled and both companies received the top certification.
Goals and Specific Measures for Empowering Female Employees. 
In seeking to achieve a state in which women commonly participate in every decision-making process, Tokio Marine & Nichido has set the target of increasing the ratio of female employees in sub- manager positions (chief or higher positions) to more than 50% in its action plan formulated pursuant ■ Promoting Diversity and Inclusion. 
Based on the Tokio Marine Group Corporate Philosophy of “Tokio Marine Group will continue to build an open and dynamic corporate culture that enables each and every employee to demonstrate his or her creative potential,” every company in the Group respects human rights and encourages diversity in gender, age, nationality and other aspects. The Group also welcomes individuals with diverse values to bring them together to achieve even greater results.
As an example of accomplishments in promoting diversity, Tokio Marine & Nichido earned the. 
Diversity Management Selection 100, an award sponsored by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and. 
Industry (METI). For this award, METI selects and commends “companies that have raised corporate value through diversity-oriented management.” Tokio Marine & Nichido earned this award based on high regard for its efforts such as enabling numerous women to continually take active roles by helping protect motherhood, enhancing systems for supporting child rearing and transforming the overall roles of employees, and for promoting the employment of persons with disabilities while raising consciousness of the principle of normalization.
As an example, we have held the TOKIO MARINE GROUP DIVERSITY & INCLUSION FORUM for three consecutive years since 2017 with the theme “unconscious bias” aimed at fostering a corporate culture that can draw out the potential of diverse personnel to the greatest extent possible and further promoting diversity and inclusion. In fiscal 2019, roughly 100 people took part in the forum from Tokio Marine Group companies. Going forward, Tokio Marine Group will continue to implement various initiatives that lead to diversity and inclusion promotion.
Group discussion at the TOKIO MARINE GROUP D&I FORUM 2019


151. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People ■ Promoting Active Roles for Older Employees. 
Tokio Marine Group considers actively promoting the continued employment of older members to be an important management issue in maintaining the sustainable growth of the Group as a whole. In addition to encouraging continuous self-advancement and changes in consciousness and behavior on the part of employees themselves, the Group intends to provide fields of activity in which employees can utilize their past experience and strengths to generate new added value while maintaining high levels of motivation.
■ Promotion of Global Human Resources Strategy. 
Amid the increasing importance of overseas business, Tokio Marine Group considers it essential to build a human resources base that supports development into a global insurance group through the hiring and developing of diverse human resources at Group companies around the world. To achieve this goal, we formulated a global human resources strategy and have been promoting various measures on an ongoing basis since 2012.
Pillars of Tokio Marine Group Global Human Resources Strategy (1) Develop Global Leaders (2) Develop highly professional human resources for each function in line with expertise (3) Expand the base of the global talent pool (4) Establish systems and infrastructure to spread the Company’s Corporate Philosophy. 
For “Develop Global Leaders,” we are implementing a number of measures aimed at development that include training for Global Leader candidates selected from Group companies worldwide. In addition,
Tokio Marine Group started the Global Job Rotation Program in fiscal 2011 from the perspective of actively utilizing motivated and capable overseas local talent. These and other initiatives are being undertaken to develop and utilize highly professional human resources for each function in line with expertise.
The Group also provides a variety of development opportunities with the aim of broadening the horizons of this group of global human resources. This includes short-term overseas training programs for Global Course third-year employees of Tokio Marine & Nichido, which started in fiscal 2012, and the dispatch of overseas trainees.
A specialized department to take charge of global human resources was established at Tokio Marine. 
Holdings to steadily promote this initiative. At the same time, the Company regularly holds the to the Act on the Promotion of Female Participation and Career Advancement in the Workplace.
As specific efforts, Tokio Marine & Nichido has incorporated “promotion of female empowerment” as a theme in management-level training and included the creation of an organization in which diverse human resources can play active roles as an assessment item of the Role Challenge System (internal assessment system). In 2015, we became a member of the IkuBoss Alliance, and through IkuBoss seminars, we continue to raise awareness.
As for the development of female employees, Tokio Marine & Nichido, with its fundamental three- pronged approach of setting expectations, conducting training and providing opportunities, assigns female employees responsibilities based on their individual career visions, provides year-round OJT, implements job rotation between departments and offers selection-based training programs such as an area course career plan training program, thereby creating an environment that allows women to take on challenges according to their willingness and abilities.
Results of Activities to Promote Active Roles for Female Employees. 
As a result of these initiatives, the number of women in management-level positions (excluding executive officer) rose from eight in 2004 to 275 in 2020 at Tokio Marine & Nichido, marking approximately a 30-fold increase. There are also a large number of women taking on active roles as managers on the frontline of sales and claims services. The company will continue to promote such efforts and expects the female manager rate to be more than 30% in 2030.
A strong push is also being made to appoint women to executive positions. At Tokio Marine &
Nichido, there are three female directors as of 2020 (including one managing director). Other Group companies in Japan already have about eight women in executive positions. In addition, one of the four Outside Directors and one of the three Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members at Tokio. 
Marine Holdings are female, while two of the three Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members at Tokio Marine & Nichido are female in order to ensure that a more diverse range of opinions is reflected in management.
Tokio Marine & Nichido (Empowering Female Employees) (in Japanese) >>
Sustainability Performance Data (Number of directors and managers) >>
Tokio Marine Group’s Data on Empowering Female Employees (in Japanese) (PDF/76.2KB)


152. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People. 
Global Human Resources Conference by gathering the human resources department managers of major Group companies to discuss measures to strengthen cooperation among human resources departments, human resources development common to the Group, personnel strategies and other matters. Going forward, the Company will continue to develop concrete measures while actively incorporating the opinions and requests of Group companies around the world.
■Promoting the Employment of Persons with Disabilities. 
Aiming to widespread acceptance of persons with disabilities and to become a corporate group in which diverse personnel work enthusiastically, Tokio Marine Group is promoting the employment of persons with disabilities at Group companies and working to raise consciousness of normalization.
Tokio Marine Business Support Co., Ltd., a special subsidiary based on the Disabled Persons. 
Employment Promotion Law, is supporting Group development by providing services that include administrative support, printing and logistics.
Promoting the Employment of Persons with Disabilities through a Special Subsidiary. 
In January 2010, we established Tokio Marine Business Support with the aim of promoting the employment of persons with intellectual and developmental disabilities, and in March 2010, the company was the first in the non-life insurance industry to be approved as a special subsidiary under the Disabled Persons Employment Promotion Law (335 employees as of June 1, 2020).
A total of 191 employees with disabilities (as of June 1, 2020), mainly persons with intellectual and developmental disabilities who are considered to have fewer employment opportunities among persons with disabilities, are working at the Tokyo head office and at the Nagoya, Osaka and Kyushu branch offices. These employees are supporting Group companies by performing such operations as data input and processing, document enclosure and shipping and printing.
Further, employees with disabilities started selling coffee as part of a welfare program to Tokio Marine & Nichido employees in 2017. Marking the third year of activity in 2019, the company has increased the number of cafés to broaden the field of activities for persons with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Based on its corporate philosophy to 1) be an organization that provides support instead of being a support recipient, 2) be a company in which employees can have their dreams and take pride in and 3) expand opportunities for taking active roles, the company is focusing on creating an environment in which employees can work enthusiastically with a sense of satisfaction. It also intends to become a company in which everyone can grow through work while keeping a sense of gratitude and remaining considerate to others.
Sustainability Performance Data (Rate of employment of persons with disabilities) ­>>
Tokio Marine Business Support (in Japanese)
Aiming to be a Company in Which All People Respect and Support Each Other. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Systems has actively been seeking to promote normalization for persons with disabilities by making areas barrier free, hiring physically challenged persons as IT engineers and having visually impaired persons provide in-house massage services.
From September 2009, the company has been running the internal café, Smile Café, and Smile Office. 
Service, which provides general administrative services such as producing name cards and making printouts through members with intellectual disabilities. Smile Café is used by around 400 people every day and is a place where employees can relax. It also sells bread and sweets made at a nearby welfare facility. Smile Office Service is expanding the types of work it handles every year and has gained the trust of employees.
By having general employees and members with disabilities work together, synergetic effects are being created in terms of cheering up each other and enhancing work satisfaction.
Tokio Marine & Nichido Systems (in Japanese)


153. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People. 
Tokio Marine Group has been striving to reform working styles with the aim of driving sustainable growth of the company and employees by having diverse human resources work with high productivity.
■ Initiatives in Pursuit of Highly Productive Working Styles. 
Tokio Marine Group is pushing ahead with various initiatives in pursuit of highly productive working styles in order to provide even higher added value to customers.
As examples, Tokio Marine & Nichido and Tokio Marine & Nichido Life initiated Go Go Challenge. 
Day (employees finish work at 5:30 p.m. once per week) and Season Challenge (all lights off and employees finish work at 8:00 p.m. for one month four times a year) so as to establish the custom of each employee controlling his or her own work hours independently. In doing so, the company aims for all employees to carry out these working practices.
In addition, we allow the use of a dedicated app that enables the confirmation, sending and receiving of company email from the individual’s mobile handset when on the move or with a client. From an infrastructure perspective, we provide company mobile handsets depending on the nature of the work, and from a system perspective, home and mobile working are given as options to all employees. We aim to ensure that diverse personnel can work at high productivity levels by establishing an environment in which people are free to choose work location and work times.
By encouraging each employee to effectively utilize the extra time created through these initiatives for personal growth (higher motivation to work, better health and enriched life) and linking their personal growth to higher added value we provide to customers, we aim to achieve sustainable growth of both the Group and employees.
■Personnel Systems Enabling Diverse Employees to Work with Independence. 
To support the realization of diverse working styles for each employee, Tokio Marine Group companies have established a range of systems including the introduction of a system enabling employees to flexibly change daily working hours (working hours free choice system) as well as childcare and nursing care leave, volunteer work leave and special consecutive paid holidays. In particular, Tokio Marine & Nichido aims for 100% of employees to take special consecutive paid 4. Reform of Working Styles holidays, which allows them to take five consecutive days off for any reasons. In addition, the working hours free choice system is being utilized by at least 10% of all of our employees on a single month basis.
Through these systems, each employee has the ability to choose the best working style to fit the circumstances he or she has been placed in. This has enabled us to create an environment in which employees with diverse values and a variety of experiences, including childcare and nursing care, can continue to make a meaningful contribution. In addition, we give consideration to flexible working arrangements through I-turn transfers*, Tokio Marine & Nichido’s job request system.
Sustainability Performance Data (Nursing care leave system) >> ■Support for Balancing Work and Childcare. 
Tok io Marine Group suppor ts the balance between work and childcare at each Group company. In recognition of proactive initiatives for employees’ childcare support, Tokio Marine &
Nichido, Tokio Marine & Nichido Life,
Tokio Marine Millea SAST, Tokio Marine & Nichido Risk Consulting, Tokio Marine & Nichido Systems, Tokio Marine &
Nichido Medical Service and Tokio Marine & Nichido ANSHIN 110 were granted the Next Generation. 
Certification (Kurumin) subsequent to accomplishing the General Business Owner Action Plan based on the Next Generation Nurturing Support Measures Promotion Law by the Minister of Health,
Labour and Welfare. Of these companies, Tokio Marine & Nichido and Tokio Marine & Nichido Systems have been accredited with the Platinum Kurumin for introducing and utilizing systems that support both work and childcare and maintaining these efforts at a high standard.
Tokio Marine & Nichido has established the “mama & papa career advancement support system” as a system backing the growth of employees wanting to work and advance their careers while raising children. Specifically, we have set up systems that go above and beyond what is mandated by law * I-turn transfers: An application type transfer in which employees in jobs not subject to relocation can continue working after changing localities due to reasons such as marriage or a parent’s or spouse’s relocation.
Tokio Marine & Nichido Tokio Marine & Nichido Tokio Marine & Nichido Systems


154. 
Co-working area set up within the head office building of Tokio Marine & Nichido, serving as a place where employees naturally gather and become connected * Listing of awards received in the past five years. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security. 
Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People. 
Sustainability Performance Data (Retiree rehiring system, maternity leave system, etc.) >> and support measures realizing a smooth return to work as well as a good balance between work and childcare. The number of people using these systems is increasing every year.
• A special paid leave system up to 2 weeks before maternity leave in excess of legally required minimum • A childcare leave system up until the child turns one year and two months, as a general rule, that may be extended up to two years depending on circumstances • A shortened work hours system that can be used from pregnancy to the end of the fiscal year when the child is in the third year of elementary school • A paid parental leave 5 days from the start of paternal leave in excess of legally required minimum • A paid parental leave up to 7 days before the spouse gives birth in excess of legally required minimum • Introducing a system allowing the viewing of company information from home during childcare leave • Implementing a telecommuting system for all employees • Holding seminars and opinion exchange meetings for system users and their superiors and partners ■Childcare Facilities and contributions. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido lends out a part of its facilities as a childcare facility that can be used by its employees.
In order to support the creation of an environment where work and childcare can be balanced early after childbirth, Tokio Marine & Nichido provides its employees with “Childcare Concierge Service”, a consultation service for finding a childcare facility that suits each employee.
Tokio Marine & Nichido provides its employees with services that allow each employee to use one of approximately 800 affiliated childcare facilities, babysitters, and other services nationwide at a discounted rate.
Tokio Marine & Nichido also provides its employees with "Mama Mentor" system that creates an environment where a new mom employee can easily consult with a senior mom employee on balancing work and childcare.
In recognition of these systems and the company’s other proactive initiatives for employees’ childcare support, Tokio Marine & Nichido has received the following awards thus far.
Date Sponsor Category Award. 
July 2015 Gunma Prefecture System of certifying dynamic “G Companies” in Gunma Prefecture in fiscal 2015 Gold certification. 
October 2015 Kobe City System of commending enterprises encouraging active engagement of both male and female employees in fiscal 2015. 
Selected by Kobe City as an enterprise encouraging active engagement of both male and female employees. 
April 2016 Osaka City System certifying leading companies in empowering females in Osaka City Selected as a 2-star Ikumen certified company. 
January 2017 Aichi Prefecture System certifying companies empowering females in Aichi Certified by Aichi Prefecture as a company empowering females. 
July 2017 Nagoya City System certifying companies promoting a good work/life balance in Nagoya. 
Certified by Nagoya City as a company promoting a good work/life balance. 
February 2018 Gunma Prefecture System of certifying dynamic “G Companies” Gold certification in Gunma Prefecture Outstanding award for being an excellent workplace for fiscal 2017. 
April 2018 Iwate Prefecture System certifying companies empowering females in Iwate Certified by Iwate Prefecture as a company empowering females. 
February 2019 Toyohashi City System certifying and awarding companies supporting childcare in Toyohashi City Certified by Toyohashi City as a company supporting childcare. 
February 2020 Gifu Prefecture System certifying excellent companies promoting a good work/ life balance in Gifu Certified as an excellent company. 
March 2020 Shiga Prefecture System certifying companies promoting a good work/life balance in Shiga Certified as an excellent company


155. 
Sustainability Library. 
We introduce the editorial policy of this report and other information.
Sustainability Performance Data >>
Principle quantitative data for the sustainability activities of Tokio Marine Group. 
Third-Party Assurance >>
Tokio Marine Group has received assurance from a third-party institution for its Sustainability. 
Report from the point of view of ensuring the credibility of disclosure and greater transparency.
Editorial Policy >>
Our editorial policy is to report on the principal sustainability activities of Tokio Marine Group in fiscal 2019 to all of our stakeholders.
GRI Standards Content Index >>
Sustainability activities of Tokio Marine Group that have a high degree of importance and are highly relevant as topics. 
Recognition about ISO 26000 >>
Tokio Marine Group is reviewing its sustainability activities based on ISO 26000 standards to further improve its sustainability initiatives.
Overview of Group Sustainability Reporting >>
Overview of Tokio Marine Group sustainability reporting and the Group’s communication tools. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


156 * For fiscal 2020, we decided to forgo the publication of the Sustainability Booklet as a number of interviews were canceled due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Overview of Group Sustainability Reporting. 
We introduce the Tokio Marine Group Overview of Group Sustainability Reporting and sustainability communication tools.
Tokio Marine Group began publishing the Environmental Report in 2000. Along with the creation of Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance through the merger of Tokio Marine and Nichido Fire in. 
October 2004, from 2005 Tokio Marine Group has been publishing the CSR Report, which summarizes the Group’s sustainability activities. In 2012, we changed the name of this report to the Sustainability. 
Report and from the perspective of conserving paper resources and enhancing convenience, we discontinued the printed version and began publishing web-based and PDF versions.
In 2015 we revamped our home page and created the Tokio Marine Holdings Corporate Website (sustainability page) as part of efforts to communicate sustainability information in an easier-to- understand manner and on a timely basis through multiple devices, including smartphones and tablet devices.
Tokio Marine Group is working to enhance communications with stakeholders toward a secure, safe and sustainable future. For this reason, Tokio Marine Group believes that familiarizing numerous stakeholders with its sustainability efforts and collaborating and cooperating with them is important.
Therefore, we regard the Sustainability Report as absolutely essential in undertaking the Group’s business operations and are disclosing information through this report.
About the Group’s Sustainability Report Tokio Marine Group’s Principal Sustainability Communication Tools. 
Tool Content Main readers Date of publication (scheduled) PDF Booklet. 
Sustainability Report. 
Provides details of Tokio Marine. 
Group’s approach to sustainability and related strategies using relevant data. 
All readers. 
Japanese:
September ◯
English:
November ◯
Sustainability. 
Booklet*
Reports on the latest sustainability topics in an easy-to-understand format. 
General readers (general public)
Japanese: July ◯ ◯
English: October ◯
Integrated Annual. 
Report. 
Concisely describes how Group financial information relates to sustainability and non-financial information while presenting medium- to long-term corporate initiatives concerning value creation. 
Investors. 
Japanese: end of. 
August ◯ ◯
English: end of. 
August ◯ ◯
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


157. 
Sustainability Performance Data. 
We provide principal sustainability performance data for Tokio Marine Group.
•Reporting period: Report on results for fiscal 2019 (April 1, 2019 – March 31, 2020) • Reporting organizations: Tokio Marine Holdings and major subsidiaries. 
Method of Calculation and Scope in Data Collection for Key Sustainability Indicators (PDF/668.5KB)
For details, please refer to Corporate Governance Report.
Corporate Governance (Corporate Governance Report)
Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors >>
Internal Control. 
Improving Quality from the Customer’s Perspective­>>
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Materiality / Plans and Results of. 
Sustainability Initiatives ­>> ■CO2 Emissions from Energy Sources and CO2 Absorption and Fixation (Tokio Marine Holdings and major subsidiaries) ［Reduction targets for CO2 emissions］ • Medium-term target (fiscal 2017): -3% (compared with fiscal 2014 level) • Reduction target in fiscal 2019: -1% compared with the previous year ［CO2 emissions］
From fiscal 2015, we began calculating Scope 3 “Category 1: Purchased goods and services (Purchased paper),” “Category 3: Fuel- and energy-related activities not included in Scope 1, 2” and “Category 5:
Waste generated in operations” as we expanded the scope of calculation for CO2 emissions. For fiscal 2019, CO2 emissions (Scope 1+2+3) for Tokio Marine Holdings and major subsidiaries were 111,172 tons (domestic: 73,470 tons, overseas: 37,701 tons) versus the initial-year target of 116,336 tons (-1% from the previous fiscal year) and -4.4% compared with the previous fiscal year, thereby achieving the target. The principal factor was efforts to reduce environmental loads.
［Data coverage rate］
We calculate 100% (employee base) of Tokio Marine Holdings and major subsidiaries (excluding. 
Scope 3 “Category 5: Waste generated in operations” and “Category 6: Business travel (by air)).
Reporting Period and Reporting Organizations. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019. 
CO2 emissions 115,244 111,509 111,172 ☑
Breakdown Domestic*1 80,545 77,511 73,470 ☑
Overseas*2 34,699 33,999 37,701 ☑
Scope 1 Direct (Gas, heavy oil, gasoline, etc.) 14,474 Domestic: 10,099 Overseas: 4,375 15,007 Domestic: 9,512 Overseas: 5,494 17,478 ☑
Domestic: 8,860 ☑ Overseas: 8,618 ☑
Scope 2 Indirect (Electricity, chilled/hot water, etc.) 72,069 Domestic: 49,126 Overseas: 22,943 67,203 Domestic: 46,471 Overseas: 20,731 62,100 ☑
Domestic: 42,433 ☑ Overseas: 19,668 ☑
Scope 3. 
Total 28,702 Domestic: 21,321 Overseas: 7,381 29,300 Domestic: 21,527 Overseas: 7,773 31,594 ☑
Domestic: 22,178 ☑ Overseas: 9,416 ☑
Category 1: Purchased goods and services (Paper usage) 15,580 Domestic: 13,801 Overseas: 1,779 14,765 Domestic: 13,460 Overseas: 1,304 13,184 ☑
Domestic: 11,491 ☑ Overseas: 1,693 ☑
Category 3: Fuel- and energy-related activities not included in Scope 1, 2 (Electricity, steam and chilled/hot water usage) 5,459 Domestic: 3,736 Overseas: 1,759 5,280 Domestic: 3,615 Overseas: 1,665 9,670 ☑
Domestic: 6,530 ☑ Overseas: 3,140 ☑
Category 5: Waste generated in operations (Waste generation) 802 1,070 1,101 ☑
Category 6: Business travel (by air) 6,824 Domestic: 2,982 Overseas: 3,843 (Coverage rate: 100%) 8,186 Domestic: 3,382 Overseas: 4,804 (Coverage rate: 100%) 7,639 ☑
Domestic: 3,056 ☑ Overseas: 4,583 ☑ (Coverage rate: 100%)
CO2 emissions per employee 2.94 2.82 2.70. 
Number of employees (consolidated fiscal year base) 39,191 persons 39,521 persons 41,101 persons. 
CO2 absorption and fixation * Excluding CO2 absorption and fixation (FY2018: 150,000 t) through mangrove planting 3,521 3,335 3,617 ☑
Corporate Governance. 
Internal Control. 
Improving Quality from the Customer’s Perspective. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure / Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives. 
Environment (Unit: tons)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


158. 
Data calculation method (☑items)
Method of Calculation and Scope in Data Collection for Key Sustainability Indicators >> “1. Calculation Method of CO2 emissions originating from energy consumption and CO2 absorption and fixation”
Data collection scope (☑items) *1 Method of Calculation and Scope in Data Collection for Key Sustainability Indicators >>
Companies in which the headquarters is in Japan of “2. Tokio Marine Holdings and its subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2020)” *2­­­Method of Calculation and Scope in Data Collection for Key Sustainability Indicators >>
Companies in which the headquarters is located overseas of “2. Tokio Marine Holdings and its subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2020)” ■Environmental Load Data (Tokio Marine Holdings and major subsidiaries)
Data calculation method (☑items)
Method of Calculation and Scope in Data Collection for Key Sustainability Indicators >>
Data collection scope (☑items)
Method of Calculation and Scope in Data Collection for Key Sustainability Indicators >>
Companies of “2. Tokio Marine Holdings and its subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2020)” ■CO2 Emissions from Energy Sources (Tokio Marine & Nichido) [CO2 emissions reduction targets] • Medium-term target (fiscal 2020): -40% reduction (compared with fiscal 2006 level) • Long-term target (fiscal 2050): -60% reduction (compared with fiscal 2006 level) • Reduction target in fiscal 2019: -1% compared with the previous year [CO2 emissions]
From fiscal 2015, we began calculating Scope 3 “Category 1: Purchased goods and services (Purchased paper),” “Category 3: Fuel- and energy-related activities not included in Scope 1, 2” and “Category 5:
Waste generated in operations” as we expanded the scope of calculation for CO2 emissions. For fiscal 2019, CO2 emissions (Scope 1+2+3) of Tokio Marine & Nichido were 56,844 tons versus the initial-year target of 59,067 tons (-1% from the previous fiscal year) and -3.6% compared with the previous fiscal year due to energy conservation efforts.
［Data coverage rate] 100.0% of Tokio Marine & Nichido overall (employee base)
Units Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019. 
Electricity usage 1,000kWh (GJ) 145,944 (525,398) 140,803 (506,892) 134,685 ☑ (484,866)
Gas usage 1,000m3 (GJ) 1,587 (69,253) 1,307 (57,054) 1,488 ☑ (64,880)
Steam and chilled/ hot water usage GJ 23,634 21,271 14,765 ☑
Gasoline usage kℓ (GJ) 4,682 (161,991) 5,133 (177,587) 5,949 ☑ (205,858)
Heavy oil usage ℓ (GJ) 29,749 (1,241) 30,823 (1,434) 35,683 ☑ (1,395)
Business travel (by air) 1,000km 71,366 83,686 81,263 ☑
Paper usage t 8,514 8,068 7,204 ☑
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


159. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019. 
CO2 emissions 62,356 59,664 56,844 ☑
Scope 1 Direct (Gas, heavy oil, gasoline, etc.) 7,344 6,920 6,427 ☑
Scope 2 Indirect (Electricity, chilled/hot water, etc.) 37,891 35,609 32,772 ☑
Scope 3. 
Total 17,121 17,135 17,646 ☑
Category 1: Purchased goods and services (Paper usage) 11,923 11,647 9,904 ☑
Category 3: Fuel- and energy-related activities not included in Scope 1, 2 (Electricity, steam and chilled/hot water usage) 2,913 2,813 5,064 ☑
Category 5: Waste generated in operations (Waste generation) 707 970 965 ☑
Category 6: Business travel (by air) 1,578 1,704 1,713 ☑
CO2 emissions per employee 3.57 3.45 3.31. 
Number of employees 17,483 persons 17,264 persons 17,146 persons. 
Data calculation method (☑items)
Method of Calculation and Scope in Data Collection for Key Sustainability Indicators >> “1. Calculation Method of CO2 emissions originating from energy consumption and CO2 absorption and fixation”
Data collection scope (☑items)
Tokio Marine & Nichido. 
Data calculation method (☑items)
Method of Calculation and Scope in Data Collection for Key Sustainability Indicators >> “1. Calculation Method of Environmental load data”
Data collection scope (☑items)
Tokio Marine & Nichido ■ Environmental Load Data (Tokio Marine & Nichido)
Units Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019. 
Electricity usage 1,000kWh (GJ) 74,166 (266,997) 71,400 (257,075) 67,489 ☑ (242,960)
Gas usage 1,000m3 (GJ) 792 (35,142) 706 (31,272) 667 ☑ (29,618)
Steam and chilled/hot water usage GJ 20,679 20,509 14,060 ☑
Gasoline usage kℓ (GJ) 2,338 (80,883) 2,239 (77,463) 2,067 ☑ (71,535)
Heavy oil usage ℓ (GJ) 25,447 (995) 25,722 (1,006) 23,653 ☑ (924)
Business travel (by air) 1,000km 15,231 15,273 16,667 ☑
Water usage 1,000m3 307 287 302 ☑
Paper usage t 6,516 6,365 5,412 ☑
Waste t 3,739 4,136 3,585 ☑
Recycling rate % 57.9 57.1 51.6 ☑ (Unit: tons)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


160 ■Data Coverage Rate. 
Tokio Marine Holdings and major subsidiaries (employee base) are calculated as 100%.
Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries: 65.8% of Tokio Marine Holdings and major subsidiaries (employee base)
Tokio Marine & Nichido: 46.6% of Tokio Marine Holdings and major subsidiaries (employee base) ■Basic Data ［Number of employees (Tokio Marine Holdings and major subsidiaries)］ ［Basic employee data (Tokio Marine & Nichido)］ ［Number of new hires (Tokio Marine & Nichido)］ ［Basic employee data (Tokio Marine Holdings)］ ［Employee attitude survey (Tokio Marine & Nichido)］ ［Labor union participation rate (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)］
Human Rights and Labor. 
Fair Personnel System and Management. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019. 
Total number of employees (consolidated fiscal year base) 39,191 40,848 41,101. 
Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries. 
Male: 13,144. 
Female: 12,345. 
Overall: 25,489. 
Male: 12,924. 
Female: 12,478. 
Overall: 25,402. 
Male: 12,695 ☑
Female: 12,638 ☑
Overall: 25,333 ☑
Tokio Marine Holdings and overseas major subsidiaries. 
Asia: 2,820 North and Central Americas: 10,044 Europe: 1,028 Overall: 13,892. 
Asia: 3,182 North and Central Americas: 10,480 Europe: 981 Overall: 14,643. 
Asia: 4,159 North and Central Americas: 10,996 Europe: 734 Overall: 15,889. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019. 
Average age Male: 47 Female: 36 Overall: 41.5. 
Male: 47 Female: 37 Overall: 41.8. 
Male: 47 Female: 37 Overall: 42. 
Average years continuously employed. 
Male: 12 Female: 11 Overall: 11.5. 
Male: 12 Female: 11 Overall: 11.8. 
Male: 12 Female: 12 Overall: 12. 
Average annual salary Approx. ¥8.52 million Approx. ¥8.16 million Approx. ¥7.57 million. 
Turnover rate* 2.2% 2.1% 2.1%
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019. 
Respondents 15,880 (Response rate: 90%) 15,660 (Response rate: 88%) 15,851 (Response rate: 89%)
Level of satisfaction Male: 89.0% Female: 83.0% Overall: 85.0%
Male: 88% Female: 81% Overall: 84%
Male: 88% Female: 80% Overall: 83%
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019. 
Male: 162 Female: 530 Overall: 692. 
Male: 185 Female: 391 Overall: 576. 
Male: 183 Female: 395 Overall: 578. 
Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2020. 
The ratio between the total annual compensation of the Chief Executive Officer and the mean employee compensation* 10.9% 10.6% 11.5%
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 99.9% 100% 100% *The turnover rate is calculated based on the number of personnel who quit voluntarily (excluding the age-limit retirement).
*The total CEO compensation / The mean employee compensation. 
Data calculation method (☑items)
Method of Calculation and Scope in Data Collection for Key Sustainability Indicators >> “1. Calculation Method of Basic data on human rights and labor, and use of diverse human resources”
Data collection scope (☑items)
Method of Calculation and Scope in Data Collection for Key Sustainability Indicators >>
Companies in which the headquarters is in Japan of “2. Tokio Marine Holdings and its subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2020)”
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


161 ［ Employee training (Tokio Marine & Nichido)］ ［Number of directors and managers (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)］ ［ Number of female directors (Tokio Marine & Nichido, as of April 1, 2020)］
Development of Human Resources Utilizing Diverse Human Resources. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019. 
Total training hours 444,091 hrs. 269,358 hrs. 314,659 hrs.
Average training hours per employee 30.15 hrs. 19.00 hrs. 21.00 hrs.
Total training cost ¥1,252,742,000 ¥1,028,502,256 ¥1,107,696,463. 
Average training cost per employee ¥85,041 ¥69,933 ¥75,159 ［Job request system (job posting system) (Tokio Marine & Nichido)］
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019. 
Applicants: 334 Approval: 184 Applicants: 309 Approval: 189 Applicants: 449 Approval: 227 *Approved requests take effect in the fiscal year after that of the application.
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019. 
Directors (including executive officers)
Male: 182 Female: 10 Overall: 192. 
Male: 211 Female: 11 Overall: 222. 
Male: 209 ☑ Female: 13 ☑ Overall: 222 ☑
General managers Male: 745 Female: 31 Overall: 776. 
Male: 768 Female: 35 Overall: 803. 
Male: 796 ☑ Female: 36 ☑ Overall: 832 ☑
Section managers Male: 2,728 Female: 290 Overall: 3,018. 
Male: 2,660 Female: 333 Overall: 2,993. 
Male: 2,558 ☑ Female: 349 ☑ Overall: 2,907 ☑
Managers (general managers and section managers) total. 
Male: 3,473 Female: 321 Overall: 3,794. 
Male: 3,428 Female: 368 Overall: 3,796. 
Male: 3,354 ☑ Female: 385 ☑ Overall: 3,739 ☑ (Deputy managers) *Only Tokio Marine & Nichido. 
Male: 1,787 Female: 393 Overall: 2,180. 
Male: 1,736 Female: 423 Overall: 2,159. 
Male: 1,638 Female: 492 Overall: 2,130. 
Directors and officers Rate 5 7.5%
Data calculation method (☑items)
Method of Calculation and Scope in Data Collection for Key Sustainability Indicators >> “1. Calculation Method of Basic data on human rights and labor, and use of diverse human resources”
Data collection scope (☑items)
Method of Calculation and Scope in Data Collection for Key Sustainability Indicators >>
Companies in which the headquarters is in Japan of “2. Tokio Marine Holdings and its subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2020)”
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


162 ［ Number of employees using the system for continued employment of older employees (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)］ ［ Rate of employment of persons with disabilities］ ［ Retiree rehiring system (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)］ ［Maternity leave system (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)］ ［Short working hours system (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)］ ［Resumption of work support system (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)］ ［Spouse childbirth leave (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)］ ［Nursing care leave system (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)］ ［Nursing care temporary retirement system (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)］ ［Return to work rate after taking childcare leave (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)］ ［Employee retention rate after taking childcare leave (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)］ ［Childcare leave system (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)］
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 721 753 773. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 2.20% 2.80% 2.10%
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 28 17 21. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 642 712 721. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 1,230 1,285 1,369. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 1,061 1,298 1,265. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 55 42 30. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 16 34 31. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 11 17 20. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019. 
Male: 100% Male: 100% Male: 100%
Female: 96.7% Female: 97.2% Female: 89.1%
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019. 
Male: 99% Male: 100% Male: 100%
Female: 98.1% Female: 97.2% Female: 94.3%
Reform of Working Styles. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019. 
Male: 204 Female: 1,080 Overall: 1,284. 
Male: 150 Female: 1,195 Overall: 1,345. 
Male: 102 Female: 1,259 Overall: 1,361. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


163 ［Annual average actual working hours (Tokio Marine & Nichido)］ ［Monthly average overtime hours (Tokio Marine & Nichido)］ ［Number of annual paid leave days taken (Tokio Marine & Nichido)］
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 1949.3 hrs. 1949.6 hrs. 1,925 hrs.
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 20 hrs. 20.7 hrs. 20.28 hrs.
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 15.2 days 15.2 days 16.9 days *Including legal overtime hours ［Percentage of employees who received health checks (Tokio Marine & Nichido)］ ［Health status of employees (Tokio Marine & Nichido)］ ［Specific health guidance implementation rate (Tokio Marine & Nichido)］ ［Participation in health improvement measures (Tokio Marine & Nichido)］
Health Management and Occupational Health and Safety. 
Category Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2020 numerical targets. 
Percentage of employees who received health checks 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Percentage of employees who underwent a detailed examination after a regular checkup 89.8% 88.7% 88.5% 86.4% Over 90%
Uterine cancer screening rate 61.7% 63.2% 62.8% 66.0% Over 67.1%
Breast cancer screening rate 76.9% 79.6% 78.2% 81.1% Over 82%
Category Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 numerical targets. 
Specific health guidance implementation rate 59.2% 58.2% 59.8% 57.3% Over 60%
Category Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2020 numerical targets. 
Number of employees who participated in Health Promotion Month/Health Challenge 4,876 6,599 7,478 7,060 Over 7,600. 
AI health app course — — — 4,285 —
Category Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2020 numerical targets. 
Number of employees participating in anti-obesity initiatives for young employees 226 219 230 301 —
Category Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2020 numerical targets. 
Findings at a regular health checkup 50.1% 49.3% 50.5% 51.8% Under 50%
Persons maintaining a healthy body weight (BMI) 69.7% 68.9% 68.4% 68.3% Over 70%
Smoking rate 15.7% 15.3% 14.5% 13.7% Under 13.4%
Stress test execution rate 97.5% 97.4% 97.9% 98.4% Over 98% ［Independent initiative implementation status (Tokio Marine & Nichido)］
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


164. 
Commuting accidents. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 78 75 70 ☑
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 99.7% 99.9% 100%
Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2020 1.08% 0.98%
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 136.2% 135% 143%
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 119 122 94. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019. 
Approx. ¥1,689 million (includes disaster support of approx. ¥47 million)
Approx. ¥1,472 million (includes disaster support of approx. ¥2 million)
Approx. ¥1,350 million (includes disaster support of approx. ¥0.29 million) ［Human rights training participation rate (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)］ ［Absentee rate* (Tokio Marine & Nichido)］ ［Employee participation rate in volunteer activities (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)］ ［Number of employees who took volunteer leave (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)］ ［Donations (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries, including monetary and in-kind donations by employees and agents)］ ［Human rights training hours (Tokio Marine & Nichido)］
Human Rights. 
Local Community and Social Contribution Activities. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019. 
Total training hours 22,833 hrs. 19,193 hrs. 21,622 hrs.
Training hours per employee 1 hr. 1 hr. 1 hr.
Participation rate 100% 100% 100% *This includes donations by employees and agents, miscellaneous expenses for social contribution programs, payments in kind, opened facilities and employee dispatching.
*Total days lost due to absenteeism / Total days scheduled to be worked ［Industrial accidents (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)］
Occupational accidents. 
Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 82* 101 106 ☑ *Due to expansion of scope of business of domestic major subsidiaries. 
Data calculation method (☑items)
Method of Calculation and Scope in Data Collection for Key Sustainability Indicators >> “1. Calculation Method of Industrial accidents”
Data collection scope (☑items)
Method of Calculation and Scope in Data Collection for Key Sustainability Indicators >>
Companies in which the headquarters is in Japan of “2. Tokio Marine Holdings and its subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2020)”
Social Contribution Strategy(PDF/347KB)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


165. 
Third-Party Assurance. 
Tokio Marine Holdings has received a third-party assurance of the Tokio Marine Group Sustainability. 
Report 2019 from Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC with the aim of further improving the level of communication with stakeholders. (The independent third-party assurance logo☑ is marked where appropriate).
By obtaining the external assurance, we will work to improve the quality of Tokio Marine Group sustainability reporting. Tokio Marine Holdings has consecutively received same third-party assurances in fiscal 2016, 2017 and 2018 as well.
Environment ­­☑ CO2 emissions from Energy Sources and CO2 Absorption and Fixation ­­­­­­(Tokio Marine Holdings and major subsidiaries)­>> ­­☑ Environmental Load Data (Tokio Marine Holdings and major subsidiaries)­>> ­­☑ CO2 Emissions from Energy Sources (Tokio Marine & Nichido)­>> ­­☑ Environmental Load Data (Tokio Marine & Nichido)­>>
Human Rights and Labor ­­☑ Number of employees (Tokio Marine Holdings and major subsidiaries) >> ­­☑ Number of directors and managers (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries) >> ­­☑ Absentee rate (Tokio Marine & Nichido) >> ­­☑ Industrial accidents (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries) >>
Translation The following is an English translation of an independent assurance report prepared in Japanese and is for information and reference purposes only. In the event of a discrepancy between the Japanese and English versions, the Japanese version will prevail. September 28, 2020. 
Independent Assurance Report TO: Mr. Satoru Komiya President Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc. Kenji Sawami Engagement Partner Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC Tokyo, Japan. 
We, Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC, have been commissioned by Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc. (hereafter the “Company”) and has carried out a limited assurance engagement on the Key Sustainability Indicators (hereafter the "Indicators") of the Company and its major subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2020 as included in the Company’s Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc. Sustainability Report 2020 (hereafter the “Report”). The scope of our assurance procedures was limited to the Indicators marked with the symbol "☑" in the Report.
1. The Company’s Responsibilities The Company is responsible for preparing the Indicators in accordance with the Company’s own criteria, which it determined with consideration of Japanese environmental regulations as presented in 1. Calculation Method of Method of Calculation and Scope in Data Collection for Key Sustainability Indicators (http://www.tokiomarinehd.com/en/sustainability/library/pdf/csr_indicators.pdf). Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are estimated using emissions factors, which are subject to scientific and estimation uncertainties given instruments for measuring GHG emissions may vary in characteristics, in terms of functions and assumed parameters. 2. Our Independence and Quality Control We have met the independence requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is based on the fundamental principles of integrity, objectiveness, professional competence and due care, confidentiality, and professional behavior. In addition, we maintain a comprehensive quality control system, including documented policies and procedures for compliance with ethical rules, professional standards, and applicable laws and regulations in accordance with the International Standard on Quality Control 1 issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. 3. Our responsibilities Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Indicators included in the Report based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements: Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information - (“ISAE 3000”) (Revised) and, with respect to GHG emissions, the International Standard on Assurance Engagements: Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements (“ISAE 3410”), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. The procedures, which we have performed according to our professional judgment, include inquiries, document inspection, analytical procedures, reconciliation between source documents and Indicators in the Report, and the following: • Making inquiries regarding the Company’s own criteria that it determined with consideration of Japanese environmental regulations, and evaluating the appropriateness thereof; • Inspecting relevant documents with regard to the design of the Company’s internal controls related to the Indicators, and inquiring of personnel responsible thereof at the Company and 2 major subsidiaries visited ; • Performing analytical procedures concerning the Indicators at the Company and 2 major subsidiaries visited; and • Testing, on a sample basis, underlying source information and conducting relevant re-calculations at the Company and 2 major subsidiaries visited. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement are more limited in nature, timing and extent than a reasonable assurance engagement. As a result, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is lower than would have been obtained if we had performed a reasonable assurance engagement. 4. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Indicators included in the Report have not been measured and reported in accordance with the Company’s own criteria that it determined with consideration of Japanese environmental regulations.
Click on the image for an enlarged view. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


166. 
GRI Standards Content Index. 
Sustainability Report 2020 is prepared in accordance with the Core option of the Global Reporting. 
Initiative (GRI) Standards.
Tokio Marine Group considers the GRI indicators corresponding to material issues (materiality) as material topics.
Identifying Material GRI Indicators (Topics)
Material GRI Indicator Material Issue (Materiality) 102: General Disclosures 4. Governance Corporate Governance. 
Enterprise Risk Management; Risk Management 201: Economic Performance Creation and Distribution of Economic Value 203: Indirect Economic Impacts. 
Local Community, Social Contribution and Awareness-Raising Activities (Nurturing Generations Responsible for the Future)
Providing Products and Services Beneficial for Safety and Security (Microinsurance)
Local Community, Social Contribution and Awareness-Raising Activities (Promoting Health, Nursing Care (for Patients with Cancer or Incurable Diseases) and Prevention of Infectious Diseases) 205: Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior 301: Materials. 
Promoting Environmental Management; Achieving Carbon Neutral Status 302: Energy 303: Water 304: Biodiversity Local Community, Social Contribution and Awareness-Raising Activities (Mangrove Planting, etc.) 305: Emissions. 
Promoting Environmental Management; Achieving Carbon Neutral Status 306: Effluents and Waste 307: Environmental Compliance 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment Promoting ESG in the Supply Chain and Value Chain 401: Employment Developing and Utilizing Diverse Human Resources. 
Material GRI Indicator Material Issue (Materiality) 403: Occupational Health and Safety Promoting Health and Productivity Management 404: Training and Education. 
Developing and Utilizing Diverse Human Resources 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 412: Human Rights Assessment Respect for Human Rights 413: Local Communities. 
Local Community, Social Contribution and Awareness-Raising Activities (Disaster Preparedness and Recovery)
Local Community, Social Contribution and Awareness-Raising Activities (Promoting Health, Nursing Care (for Patients with Cancer or Incurable Diseases) and Prevention of Infectious Diseases)
Local Community, Social Contribution and Awareness-Raising Activities (Promoting Disaster and Crime Prevention and Traffic Safety)
Local Community, Social Contribution and Awareness-Raising Activities (Environmental Protection Activities, Mangrove Planting, etc.)
Local Community, Social Contribution and Awareness-Raising Activities (Nurturing Generations Responsible for the Future)
Local Community, Social Contribution and Awareness-Raising Activities (The Elderly, Persons with Disabilities and Gender) 414: Supplier Social Assessment Promoting ESG in the Supply Chain and Value Chain 417: Marketing and Labeling Improving Quality from the Customer’s Perspective 418: Customer Privacy Information Security 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Anti-Corruption. 
Development of Clean Energy (Topic) Protecting Global Environment through Products and Services. 
Sustainable Investment and Financing (Topic) Promoting ESG in the Supply Chain and Value Chain (Sustainable Investment and Financing)
Disasters, Accidents and Microinsurance (Topic) Products and Services Beneficial for Safety and Security (Research on Extreme Weather Events; Disaster Recovery and Support for Business Continuity)
Disasters, Accidents and Microinsurance (Topic) Products and Services Beneficial for Safety and Security (Demonstration Tests on Public Roads for Autonomous Vehicles; Auto Insurance; Safe Driving)
Comprehensive Insurance Service Encompassing Treatment, Finance, Longevity and Health Products and Services Beneficial for Safety and Security (Comprehensive Insurance Service Encompassing Treatment, Finance, Longevity and Health)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


167. 
GRI Content Index (in Accordance with Core)
GRI Standards General Disclosures Page Number/URL (Reasons for Omission)
GRI 101: Foundation 2016 (GRI 101 does not include General Disclosures)
Universal Disclosures. 
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 1. Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization About Us (Company Information) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Tokio Marine Group 102-3 Location of headquarters About Us (Company Information) 102-4 Location of operations Tokio Marine Group 102-5 Ownership and legal form Investor Relations > Stock Information > Stock Information 102-6 Markets served Tokio Marine Group 102-7 Scale of the organization. 
Tokio Marine Group. 
Investor Relations > Financial Data 102-8 Information on employees and other workers ・Sustainability Performance Data >Human Rights and Labor > Basic Data >Number of employees (Tokio Marine Holdings and major subsidiaries) [Information on employee gender at overseas major subsidiaries, employment contract and employment type are not disclosed.] 102-9 Supply chain ・Sustainability in the Value Chain 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain ・Editorial Policy > Scope of this Report 102-11 Precautionary principle of approach ・Internal Control > 2. Risk Management ・External Evaluations and Participation in Initiatives. 
Making Society Resilient to Natural Disasters > 2. Conducting Research on Climate Change and Natural Disaster Risks and Linking the Findings to Product and Service Planning. 
GRI Standards General Disclosures Page Number/URL (Reasons for Omission)
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-12 External initiatives ・External Evaluations and Participation in Initiatives ・Promoting ESG Initiatives through the Provision of Products and Services > Study and Research on Promotion of ESG Initiatives through the Provision of Products and Services • Creating a Society Where People Can Live with Security through Sustainable Investments and Financing > Study and Research on Sustainable Investments and Financing 102-13 Membership of associations ・External Evaluations and Participation in Initiatives 2. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker ・Top Message 3. Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior ・Tokio Marine Group's Approach to Sustainability 4. Governance 102-18 Governance structure. 
About Us > Governance. 
About Us > Company Information > Organization Chart. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure 5. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups ・Stakeholder Engagement > Tokio Marine Group’s Stakeholders 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements ・Sustainability Performance Data > Fair Personnel System and Management > Labor union participation rate (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries) 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders ・Stakeholder Engagement [Engaged stakeholders are selected by eliminating antisocial forces and adhering to guidelines and policies of related businesses. Sustainability dialogue participants are selected based on their suitability for the theme.] 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement ・Stakeholder Engagement > Tokio Marine Group’s Stakeholders 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised ・Stakeholder Engagement > Opinions Received from Experts in the Past and Subsequent Responses. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


168. 
GRI Standards General Disclosures Page Number/URL (Reasons for Omission)
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 6. Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Tokio Marine Group 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries ・ Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 102-47 List of material topics ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 102-48 Restatements of information ・Editorial Policy > Scope of This Report 102-49 Changes in reporting Not applicable 102-50 Reporting period ・Editorial Policy > Scope of This Report 102-51 Date of most recent report ・Editorial Policy > Date of Publication 102-52 Reporting cycle ・Editorial Policy > Date of Publication 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report ・Editorial Policy 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards ・GRI Standards Content Index 102-55 GRI content index ・GRI Standards Content Index 102-56 External assurance ・Third-Party Assurance. 
Material Topics. 
Economic Performance. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ・Corporate Governance ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability ・Stakeholder Engagement. 
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ・Sustainability Performance Data > Local Community and Social Contribution Activities 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change ・Initiatives for Building a Decarbonized Society. 
Promoting Environmental Management > 4. Initiatives for Energy Conservation and the Reduction of Environmental Footprint > Environmental Accounting. 
GRI Standards General Disclosures Page Number/URL (Reasons for Omission)
Indirect Economic Impacts. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure • Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives • Promoting ESG Initiatives through the Provision of Products and Services • Making Society Resilient to Natural Disasters > 2. Conducting Research on Climate Change and Natural Disaster Risks and Linking the Findings to Product and Service Planning • Preserving Biodiversity and Wetlands through Products and Services • Building a Society Based on Health and Longevity to Ensure Peace of Mind > 4. Activities to Reduce the Incidence of Cancer and Other Diseases and Support Patients and Their Families. 
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported ・Nurturing Generations Responsible for the Future > 1. Nurturing Future Generations, Encouraging International Exchange and Promoting Sports in Local Communities through Foundations ・Building a Society Based on Health and Longevity to Ensure Peace of Mind > 4. Activities to Reduce the Incidence of Cancer and Other Diseases and Support Patients and Their Families 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts ・Eliminating Poverty in Society. 
Anti-corruption. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure ・Recognition about ISO 26000 ・Internal Control > 1. Compliance and Anti-Corruption ・Internal Control > 1. Compliance and Anti-Corruption > Hotline System (Internal Whistleblower System)
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption ・Internal Control > 2. Compliance and Anti-Corruption [Details regarding risk assessment are not disclosed.]
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


169. 
GRI Standards General Disclosures Page Number/URL (Reasons for Omission)
Anti-competitive Behavior. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure ・Recognition about ISO 26000 ・Internal Control > 3. Compliance and Anti-Corruption ・Internal Control > 1. Compliance and Anti-Corruption > Hotline System (Internal Whistleblower System)
GRI 206: Anticompetitive Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Not applicable. 
Materials. 
GRI 103:
Management. 
Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure ・Recognition about ISO 26000 ・Promoting Environmental Management. 
GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume ・Sustainability Performance Data > Environment. 
Energy. 
GRI 103:
Management. 
Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・ Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure ・Recognition about ISO 26000 ・Promoting Environmental Management. 
GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization ・Sustainability Performance Data > Environment. 
Water. 
GRI 103:
Management. 
Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure ・Recognition about ISO 26000 ・Promoting Environmental Management. 
GRI Standards General Disclosures Page Number/URL (Reasons for Omission)
GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source ・Sustainability Performance Data > Environment (Environmental Load Data (Tokio Marine Holdings and major subsidiaries))
Biodiversity. 
GRI 103:
Management. 
Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure ・Recognition about ISO 26000 ・Promoting Environmental Management. 
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-3 Habitats protected or restored ・Preserving Biodiversity and Wetlands through Products and Services. 
Emissions. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure ・Recognition about ISO 26000 ・Promoting Environmental Management. 
GRI305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions ・Sustainability Performance Data > Environment 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions ・Sustainability Performance Data > Environment 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ・Sustainability Performance Data > Environment 305-4 GHG emissions intensity ・Sustainability Performance Data > Environment. 
Effluents and Waste. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure ・Recognition about ISO 26000 ・Promoting Environmental Management. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


170. 
GRI Standards General Disclosures Page Number/URL (Reasons for Omission)
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method ・Sustainability Performance Data > Environment (Environmental Load Data (Tokio Marine Holdings and major subsidiaries))
Environmental Compliance. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure ・Recognition about ISO 26000 ・Promoting Environmental Management. 
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Not applicable. 
Supplier Environmental Assessment. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure ・Recognition about ISO 26000 ・Sustainability in the Value Chain. 
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria ・Sustainability in the Value Chain. 
According to Tokio Marine & Nichido’s Principle of Transactions, we ask suppliers for confirmation of “compliance with laws, regulations and social norms” and “consideration for the environment.” However, the indicators are not disclosed.
Employment. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure ・Recognition about ISO 26000 ・Developing and Utilizing Diverse Human Resources > 4. Reform of Working Styles. 
GRI Standards General Disclosures Page Number/URL (Reasons for Omission)
GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover ・Sustainability Performance Data > Human Rights and Labor 401-3 Parental leave ・Sustainability Performance Data > Reform of Working Styles [Discloses the number of employees using work/life balance related systems]
Occupational Health and Safety. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure ・Recognition about ISO 26000 ・Developing and Utilizing Diverse Human Resources. 
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities ・Sustainability Performance Data > Health Management and Occupational Health and Safety > Industrial accidents (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries)
Number of occupational accidents and commuting accidents are disclosed, but data by region and gender are not disclosed.
Training and Education. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure ・Recognition about ISO 26000 ・Developing and Utilizing Diverse Human Resources > 2. Development of Human Resources. 
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs ・Developing and Utilizing Diverse Human Resources > 2. Development of Human Resources ・Sustainability Performance Data > Development of Human Resources > Job request system (job posting system) (Tokio Marine & Nichido)
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


171. 
GRI Standards General Disclosures Page Number/URL (Reasons for Omission)
Diversity and Equal Opportunity. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure ・Recognition about ISO 26000 ・Developing and Utilizing Diverse Human Resources > 3. Utilizing Diverse Human Resources. 
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees ・Sustainability Performance Data > Utilizing Diverse Human Resources > Number of directors and managers (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries) ・Sustainability Performance Data >Human Rights and Labor > Basic Data. 
Human Rights Assessment. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure • Recognition about ISO 26000 • Respect for Human Rights. 
GRI412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures ・Respect for Human Rights ・Sustainability Performance Data > Human Rights > Human rights training participation rate (Tokio Marine Holdings and domestic major subsidiaries) ・Sustainability Performance Data > Human Rights > Human rights training hours (Tokio Marine & Nichido)
GRI Standards General Disclosures Page Number/URL (Reasons for Omission)
Local Communities. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure • Recognition about ISO 26000 • Building a Secure Society by Utilizing Traffic Technology Innovation • Preserving Biodiversity and Wetlands through Products and Services • Building a Society Based on Health and Longevity to Ensure Peace of Mind > 4. Activities to Reduce the Incidence of Cancer and Other Diseases and Support Patients and Their Families. 
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs ・Making Society Resilient to Natural Disasters > 2. Conducting Research on Climate Change and Natural Disaster Risks and Linking the Findings to Product and Service Planning ・Preserving Biodiversity and Wetlands through Products and Services > 2. Tree Planting Activities in Southeast Asia and Communicating Relevant Information > Economic Value and Impact on Local Communities from Mangrove Planting ・Building a Society Based on Health and Longevity to Ensure Peace of Mind > 4. Activities to Reduce the Incidence of Cancer and Other Diseases and Support Patients and Their Families. 
Supplier Social Assessment. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure • Recognition about ISO 26000 • Sustainability in the Value Chain. 
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria ・ Sustainability in the Value Chain. 
Public Policy. 
GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Value of political cosntributions*1. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


172. 
GRI Standards General Disclosures Page Number/URL (Reasons for Omission)
Customer Privacy. 
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure ・Recognition about ISO 26000 ・Internal Control > 3. Information Security ・Improving Quality from the Customer’s Perspective > 3. Response to Customer Feedback. 
GRI 418:
Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data ・Internal Control > 3. Information Security ・Improving Quality from the Customer’s Perspective > 4. Response to Customer Feedback > Fiscal 2019 Number of Customer Feedback Comments. 
Socioeconomic Compliance. 
GRI 103:
Management. 
Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives > Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure • Recognition about ISO 26000 • Internal Control > 4. Compliance and Anti-Corruption • Internal Control > 1. Compliance and Anti-Corruption > Hotline System (Internal Whistleblower System) • Respect for Human Rights > Management Stance concerning Respect for Human Rights and Various Initiatives > Hotline System (Whistle Blower System)
GRI 419:
Socioeconomic. 
Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Not applicable. 
Promoting ESG Initiatives through the Provision of Products and Services*
GRI 103:
Management. 
Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ・Promoting ESG Initiatives through the Provision of Products and Services. 
GRI Standards General Disclosures Page Number/URL (Reasons for Omission)
Development of Clean Energy*
GRI 103:
Management. 
Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ・Preventing Global Warming by Promoting the Development of Clean Energy. 
Sustainable Investment*
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ・Creating a Society Where People Can Live with Security through Sustainable Investments and Financing. 
Disasters and Traffic Safety*
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ・Building a Secure Society by Utilizing Traffic Technology Innovation. 
Comprehensive Insurance Service Encompassing Treatment, Finance, Longevity and Health*
GRI 103:
Management. 
Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ・Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability > Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability and Group Core Sustainability Themes and Materiality 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ・Building a Society Based on Health and Longevity to Ensure Peace of Mind • Making Society Resilient to Natural Disasters *Material issues identified by Tokio Marine Group that have no relevance to any of the items in the standards. *1 In Fiscal 2020, Tokio Marine Group made political donations amounting to 18.1 million yen. In Japan, it is mandatory for political organizations to release the status of income and spending of political funds. Therefore, the above mentioned amount is to be disclosed in the Official Gazette and prefectural public notice.
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


173. 
Recognition about ISO 26000. 
In Tokio Marine Group, the departments handling each respective function are responsible for implementing initiatives for each sustainability issue. By referring to the core subjects addressed in. 
ISO 26000, specifically organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues and community involvement and development, Tokio. 
Marine Group reviews the materiality of its sustainability issues and makes efforts to improve them.
The management systems for each issue are listed within each section of this report.
ISO 26000 Core Issues and Issues Management Elements Reference. 
Human rights. 
Due diligence/ Human rights risk situations/ Avoidance of complicity/ Discrimination and vulnerable groups. 
Approach regarding impact Respect for Human Rights, Fundamental Policy. 
Management methods. 
Policies/Commitment. 
Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter (Respect for Human Rights and Dignity)
Respect for Human Rights > Fundamental Policy. 
Goals and targets Respect for Human Rights. 
Responsibilities and management resources. 
Respect for Human Rights > Management System concerning Respect for Human Rights and Initiatives and Various Initiatives. 
Complaint handling mechanism Hotline System (Whistle Blower System)
Specific steps Respect for Human Rights. 
Labor practices. 
Employment and employment relationships/ Conditions of work and social protection/Social dialogue/Health and safety at work/Human development and training in the workplace. 
Approach regarding impact. 
Promoting Health and Productivity Management. 
Developing and Utilizing Diverse Human Resources. 
Management methods. 
Policies/Commitment Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter (Respect for Human Rights and Dignity)
Goals and targets Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives. 
Responsibilities and management resources Developing and Utilizing Diverse Human Resources. 
Complaint handling mechanism Fair Personnel System and Management; Raising Employee Satisfaction Levels. 
Specific steps Promoting Health and Productivity Management; Developing and Utilizing Diverse Human Resources. 
ISO 26000 Core Issues and Issues Management Elements Reference. 
The environment. 
Prevention of pollution/ Sustainable resource use. 
Approach regarding impact Core Theme 2: Protecting the Earth; Promoting Environmental Management. 
Management methods. 
Policies/Commitment. 
Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter. 
Tokio Marine Group Environmental Philosophy, Environmental Policy and Stance. 
Goals and targets Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives. 
Responsibilities and management resources 1-B. Stance on Promoting Environmental Management. 
Complaint handling mechanism ISO 14001; Green Assist. 
Specific steps Promoting Environmental Management. 
Climate change mitigation and adaptation. 
Approach regarding impact Core Theme 2: Protecting the Earth; 3. Concept for Reducing CO2 Emissions. 
Management methods. 
Policies/Commitment Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter. 
Goals and targets Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives. 
Responsibilities and management resources 1-B. Stance on Promoting Environmental Management. 
Complaint handling mechanism ISO 14001; Green Assist. 
Specific steps. 
Making Society Resilient to Natural Disasters. 
Preventing Global Warming by Promoting the Development of Clean Energy. 
Biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats. 
Approach regarding impact Tokio Marine Group’s Vision for Biodiversity and Wetlands. 
Management methods. 
Policies/Commitment 2. Preservation of Biodiversity and Wetlands. 
Tokio Marine Group’s Vision for Biodiversity and Wetlands. 
Goals and targets Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives. 
Responsibilities and management resources 1-B. Stance on Promoting Environmental Management. 
Complaint handling mechanism ISO 14001; Green Assist. 
Specific steps Promotion of Environmental Management; Preserving Biodiversity and Wetlands through Products and Services. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


174. 
ISO 26000 Core Issues and Issues Management Elements Reference. 
Fair operating practices. 
Anti-corruption/ Responsible political involvement/ Fair competition/ Respect for property rights. 
Approach regarding impact Internal Control. 
Management methods. 
Policies/Commitment Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter, Declaration of Commitment to Compliance, Tokio Marine Group Code of Conduct. 
Goals and targets Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives. 
Responsibilities and management resources Tokio Marine Group Compliance System. 
Complaint handling mechanism Hotline System (Internal Whistleblower System)
Specific steps Compliance and Anti-Corruption. 
Promoting social responsibility in the value chain. 
Approach regarding impact Sustainability in the Value Chain. 
Management methods. 
Policies/Commitment. 
Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter. 
Tokio Marine & Nichido Group Principle of Transactions. 
Goals and targets Sustainability in the Value Chain. 
Responsibilities and management resources Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives. 
Complaint handling mechanism Value Chain Management. 
Specific steps. 
Response to Customer Feedback; Sustainability in the Value Chain; Promoting ESG Initiatives through the Provision of Products and Services; Creating a Society Where People Can Live with Security through Sustainable Investments and Financing. 
Consumer issues. 
Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution/ Education and awareness. 
Approach regarding impact Improving Quality from the Customer’s Perspective. 
Management methods. 
Policies/Commitment Basic Policies for Protection of Customers’ Interests. 
Goals and targets Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives. 
Responsibilities and management resources. 
Quality Improvement Initiatives. 
Response to Customer Feedback. 
Working Together with Agents to Improve Quality. 
Complaint handling mechanism Response to Customer Feedback. 
Specific steps Improving Quality from the Customer’s Perspective. 
ISO 26000 Core Issues and Issues Management Elements Reference. 
Consumer issues. 
Consumer data protection and privacy. 
Approach regarding impact Information Security. 
Management methods. 
Policies/Commitment Privacy Policy. 
Goals and targets Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives. 
Responsibilities and management resources Internal Control. 
Complaint handling mechanism Response to Customer Feedback. 
Specific steps Information Security. 
Sustainable consumption. 
Approach regarding impact Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives; Sustainable Consumption Management System. 
Management methods. 
Policies/Commitment Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter. 
Goals and targets Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives. 
Responsibilities and management resources. 
Sustainability Promotion Structure and Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives; Sustainable Consumption Management System. 
Complaint handling mechanism Response to Customer Feedback. 
Specific steps Eliminating Poverty in Society. 
Community involvement and development. 
Community involvement. 
Approach regarding impact Tokio Marine Group’s Approach to Sustainability. 
Management methods. 
Policies/Commitment Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Charter. 
Goals and targets Plans and Results of Sustainability Initiatives. 
Responsibilities and management resources Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Promotion Structure. 
Complaint handling mechanism Stakeholder Engagement. 
Specific steps. 
Building a Secure Society by Leveraging Traffic Technology Innovation. 
Increasing Safety in Daily Lives by Responding to Varying Lifestyles and Changes in Society. 
Building Communities for People to Live with Peace of Mind through Environmental Protection Activities. 
Building a Society Based on Health and Longevity to Ensure Peace of Mind. 
Nurturing Generations Responsible for the Future. 
Aiming to Create a Symbiotic Society. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


175. 
Editorial Policy. 
This report is intended to report on the principal sustainability activities of Tokio Marine Group in fiscal 2019 to all our stakeholders.
The Tokio Marine Group Sustainability Report 2020 focuses mainly on the philosophy and direction of Tokio Marine Group’s sustainability initiatives as well as our activities based on three core themes (Providing Safety and Security, Protecting the Earth and Supporting People), and discloses detailed information.
We also publish Integrated Annual Report 2020 for investors.
Integrated Annual Report 2020 • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards • ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility • United Nations Global Compact, “Guidelines for Communication on Progress (COPs)” • Previous edition: November 2019 • Current edition: November 2020 • Next edition: November 2021 (scheduled)
For inquiries concerning the Sustainability Report, please contact:
Sustainability Division, Corporate Planning Department Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc.
1-2-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-0005 Japan. 
Tel.­+81-3-5223-1552 Fax. +81-3-6267-5916 e-mail: CSR@tokiomarinehd.com. 
Reporting organizations. 
Fundamentally, this report covers Tokio Marine Holdings and its major domestic and overseas Group companies*.
*Tokio Marine & Nichido, Nisshin Fire, Tokio Marine & Nichido Life, Tokio Marine Asset Management, etc.
Reporting period. 
This report covers activities conducted primarily during fiscal 2019 (April 2019 - March 2020).
However, for the purpose of further clarification, on occasion, reference is made to activities undertaken outside the reporting period.
Principal changes during the reporting period. 
None. 
Guidelines Referred to in Preparing this Report Dates of Publication. 
Scope of This Report. 
Tokio Marine Group's Sustainability. 
Governance Core Theme 1 / Providing Safety and Security Sustainability Management. 
Sustainability Library. 
Core Theme 2 / Protecting the Earth Core Theme 3 / Supporting People


東京都千代田区丸の内1-2-1東京海上日動ビル新館 〒100-0005 Tel.03-6212-3333（代表） 東京都千代田区丸の内1-2-1 東京海上日動ビル新館 〒100-0005 Tel.03-6212-3333（代表）
Tokio Marine Nichido Building Shinkan, 1-2-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-0005 Japan +81-3-6212-3333