SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 1. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 2. 
CONTENTS. 
CEO MESSAGE. 
WOLFSPEED 2022. 
Who We Are Our Values Why Wolfspeed Expanding Capacity for Silicon Carbide. 
SUSTAINABILITY 2022. 
Sustainability Mission and Principles Sustainability Goals 2021 Sustainability Milestones Sustainability Reporting Materiality Assessment Our Contribution to the UN SDGs. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2022. 
Absolute Commitment to Integrity and Transparency Corporate Governance Board of Directors and Committee Composition Code of Conduct Business Continuity Management Risk Management Sustainability Oversight Information Security. 
ECONOMIC 2022. 
Responsible Business Practices, Innovating for a Better Future Product Quality Quality Policy (WIN) 5S Customer Satisfaction Global Trade Compliance Supply Chain Responsible Minerals Sourcing California Proposition 65 3
4 5 7 8 11 14 15 16 18 19 20 22 26 27 27 27 28 28 29 29 30 32 33 33 33 35 37 37 38 38 40 41 42 42 43 44 54 55 57 60 60 68 69 73 74 74 75 75 75 76 76 77 81 82 88 91 92 93 117 119 121 138 150. 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2022. 
People First, People Always Our Employees Our Early Career Employees Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Employee Engagement Benefits Training and Development Health and Safety Health and Safety — Our Employees and Contractors Health and Safety — Our Customers and Partners Community Engagement. 
ENVIRONMENT 2022. 
Processes that Protect the Environment, Products that Improve it Product Sustainability Product Ecology Product End of Life Environmental Management and ISO 14001 Environment, Health, and Safety Policy (LEAD) NC Environmental Stewardship Initiative Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Other Air Emissions Water Management Waste Management Circular Economy. 
APPENDIX 2022. 
GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures UN SDGs Disclosures TCFD Disclosures Sustainability Data Independent Assurance Statement


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 3. 
In the past year, the world has seen new levels of environmental consciousness. We now have almost daily reminders of the impacts of climate change: wildfires, droughts, floods and other significant weather events are creating an increased urgency for more sustainable practices. With a greater sense of urgency, governments are creating policies and regulations to reduce the impact on the environment. As of May 2021, approximately 130 countries had announced or are considering net zero greenhouse gas emissions targets, covering close to 70 percent of global emissions. As a result, electric vehicle demand has never been higher, renewable energy is accelerating, and everything from HVAC systems to data centers are being reimagined.
This global conversation is driving a more sustainable approach to energy consumption and intersects with the increased demand for Wolfspeed’s game-changing and more energy-efficient Silicon Carbide technology. Industry experts are forecasting that the Silicon Carbide device market could exceed more than $10 billion in 2027, representing a ten-fold increase from 2021.1. 
In October 2021, Wolfspeed officially rang the bell at the New York Stock Exchange to signify our name change and the culmination of four years of transformation into a pure-play global Silicon Carbide semiconductor powerhouse. Wolfspeed is leading the transition from silicon to the more energy-efficient Silicon Carbide, supporting the electrification of everything and the development of a more sustainable world.
But it is not enough to lead the industry with our products – we firmly believe that we must lead our industry and others with how we conduct our business. That means sustainability must factor into our big decisions and our everyday actions, from our leaders to each of our over 4,500 employees worldwide. As we help enable more responsible use of the world’s resources through our products, we also remain resolute in doing our part as individuals, as a team and as a company.
In 2021, we defined Wolfspeed’s first set of corporate-wide sustainability goals. These goals align our teams, create a shared accountability, and maintain guidelines to inform our business decisions. We have made solid progress in a relatively short time, and I’d like to thank the Wolfspeed team for their hard work, dedication, and everyday commitment to making a difference on our sustainability journey.
We have made progress, but we also recognize we have more work to do.
In 2021 we implemented new energy-efficiency projects that contributed to the greenhouse gas reduction of 3,822 metric tons of CO2e, by changing our wafers slicing process, exchanging lights, upgrading to more efficient design acid exhaust fans, and consolidating our operations. Our goal is to reduce scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 50% by 2030.
We continued to expand our programs to close the opportunity gap from pre-K all the way through college internships and recruiting. We have established global partnerships with organizations focused on increasing STEM opportunities and representation for marginalized and underrepresented individuals, as well as underserved communities. Our partnership with the Society of Women in Engineering (SWE) Corporate Partnership Council, for example, allows Wolfspeed to extend our reach from regional to global for those identifying as female at the middle/high school, collegiate and professional levels.
Our goal is to establish STEM partnerships at 100% of our major locations by 2025, provide more opportunities for students of all ages to excel by providing access to STEM education.
As you can see, we approach sustainability with the same passion and innovation we apply to everything we do. You will find our progress within the pages of this report, but we are already thinking of next steps and ways we can improve, where we can be more creative and drive greater change. Not only for Wolfspeed, but also as a blueprint for other businesses as we lead the way to a more sustainable future.
CEO MESSAGE. 
Gregg A. Lowe President and CEO. 
Sincerely, [1] https://omdia.tech.informa.com/OM001972/Market-for-GaN-and-SiC-powersemiconductors-to-top-$10-billion-in-2027


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 4. 
WOLFSPEED 2022


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 5. 
Our Products and Applications. 
PRODUCTS. 
Silicon Carbide: Materials, Schottky Diodes,
MOSFETs, Power Modules, Bare Die. 
Gallium nitride on Silicon Carbide: MMICs, HEMTS. 
APPLICATIONS. 
Electric Vehicles (EVs), EV Charging. 
Infrastructure, Solar, Energy Storage,
Data Centers, Communications Infrastructure,
Radar, Aerospace and Defense. 
Wolfspeed. 
WHO WE ARE. 
On October 4, 2021, Wolfspeed leaders rang the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange, signaling the official launch of Wolfspeed, Inc., the global leader in Silicon Carbide technology and production. The moment was the culmination of a four-year transformation involving the divestiture of two-thirds of its business and a repositioning of the company’s core strategy to focus on what Wolfspeed has now become a pure-play global semiconductor powerhouse.
Wolfspeed leads the market in the worldwide adoption of Silicon Carbide and gallium nitride technologies, providing industry-leading solutions for efficient energy consumption and a sustainable future. Wolfspeed’s product families include Silicon Carbide materials, Power devices, and RF devices targeted for various applications such as electric vehicles, fast charging, 5G, renewable energy and storage, and aerospace and defense.
Our solutions are driving change across the semiconductor market, enabling greater efficiency and performance, smaller systems, and lower costs. These solutions are key to the electrification of the drivetrain, to support the shift to electric vehicles, wireless infrastructure to unlock the potential of smart cities, and power storage to enable broader adoption of alternative energy.
We harness the power of Silicon Carbide to change the world for the better.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 6. 
Where We’re Located. 
Industry Awards and Recognition *Not all locations are listed **Marcy, NY opened in April 2022. 
Finalist, Most Respected Public Semiconductor Company Award 2021, GLOBAL SEMICONDUCTOR ALLIANCE. 
Barron’s List of 100 Most Sustainable Companies 2020, BARRON’S. 
Semifinalist in Coolest Thing Made in NC Contest 2020, NORTH CAROLINA CHAMBER Honorable Mention, Ragan’s Employee Communications Awards Class of 2020 (Virtual Events/Celebrations) 2020, RAGAN 50 Companies to Watch in 2020 2019, BLOOMBERG All Silicon Carbide Modules for High Voltage Applications 2018, DEVICE DESIGN AND PACKAGING AWARD. 
FOUNDED REVENUE PEOPLE PATENTS 1987. 
NC State $525.6M. 
In FY 2021 ~4,500. 
Employees >2,000. 
Worldwide. 
HEADQUARTERS. 
SALES LABORATORY. 
MANUFACTURING. 
NORTH AMERICA*
Durham / RTP, NC Fayetteville, AR Mesa, AZ Morgan Hill, CA Marcy, NY**
EUROPE*
Munich, Germany Kista, Sweden. 
ASIA. 
Hong Kong India Japan Korea Malaysia Shanghai Shenzhen Taiwan


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 7. 
OUR VALUES. 
Our values are a simple, yet powerful reflection of how we interact with each other, our customers, our partners, and our communities.
We strive to live by these values every day. They reflect both our great history of disruptive innovation and set the tone for the exciting future ahead. We do amazing things in a human way. For example, our Values in Action program allows employees to say thank you and recognize their peers for going above and beyond. It’s just one small way our values are embedded in our work and focused on our people.
INTEGRITY AND RESPECT INGENUITY AND PASSION. 
We always act with integrity and respect for our people, workplace and community. Relationships matter. We value everyone’s contribution and an environment of spirited and open debate.
We do the right thing, and we say, “Thank You.”
We are accountable to each other and committed to the highest standards of work and behavior.
We succeed or fail together.
Our passion for making the world better through innovation means we take risks and question conventional thinking, developing new technologies and ways of doing business—leading the way, every single day.
We do what others say can’t be done.
OWNERSHIP AND ACCOUNTABILITY


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 8. 
Wolfspeed is leading the transformation from silicon to Silicon Carbide. After more than thirty years of forging new technology adoption and transformation, our Wolfspeed® Power and Radio Frequency (RF) semiconductors are leading the industry through unrivaled expertise and capacity. What’s next? We believe anything is possible through hard work, collaboration, and a passion for innovation.
EXPERTISE PORTFOLIO CAPACITY. 
Our founders were the first to successfully synthesize Silicon Carbide, and for the last 35 years have focused on devising and supplying the world’s power systems designers with the industry’s highest performing Silicon Carbide technologies for high-power applications.
As a pioneer in Silicon Carbide semiconductors, we now field the world’s broadest, most capable portfolio of next generation, Silicon Carbide based MOSFETs, Schottky diodes and Power modules for power and industry needs.
Wolfspeed has the first, largest and only 200mm Silicon Carbide fabrication facility in Marcy, NY. This state-of-the-art, fully-automated facility will be automotive qualified and greatly expands our ability to meet the world’s increasing demand for Silicon Carbide.
WHY WOLFSPEED. 
PROVEN LEADERSHIP 35+
Years of Experience. 
PROVEN EXPERIENCE 7+
Trillion Power devices field hours. 
PROVEN EFFICIENCY 10 vs 1. 
Switching efficiency of Silicon Carbide over silicon. 
PROVEN SUCCESS. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 8


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 9. 
WOLFSPEED MILESTONES. 
How do leaders lead? By being first.
Our transition to Wolfspeed marks both a new beginning and a continuation of our company’s storied history. It is an opportunity to build on the financial strength, responsible and ethical business practices, innovation, and passion that have been the hallmarks of our culture for the past 35 years. We will continue to drive our mission forward, powered by incredibly talented thinkers and doers, allowed to explore and reimagine what is possible. We’ll always be a place where the doers and the dreamers have permission to reinvent and reimagine. Our name is different, but our foundation is the same, and our future is brighter than ever.
Cree Research, Inc. Founded. 
Launched Cree Research, Inc. out of a lab at NC State University to commercialize Silicon Carbide. 
First Commercial Silicon Carbide Wafers. 
Released the world’s first commercial Silicon Carbide wafers, delivering the industry’s most robust, highest-quality materials for the creation of Silicon Carbide and gallium nitride-on-Silicon Carbide devices. 
First Gallium Nitride HEMT on Silicon Carbide. 
Created the industry’s first gallium nitride HEMT -on-Silicon Carbide which enabled increased signal gain and a 4x power density (watts per mm) increase for wireless and broadcast high-power applications. 
First Gallium Nitride-on-Silicon Carbide MMIC. 
Demonstrated first ever gallium nitride-on-Silicon Carbide MMIC with record power density, proving gallium nitride-on-Silicon Carbide was greatly superior to GaAs, not only supporting higher power output, but also allowing smaller die size for equal power 600V Commercial Silicon Carbide JBS Schottky Diode. 
Released our first 600V commercial Silicon Carbide JBS Schottky diode that enabled the creation of ENERGY STAR® 80Plus Gold, Platinum and Titanium power supplies


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 10. 
WOLFSPEED MILESTONES (CONTINUED) 2011 2018 2019. 
Wolfspeed WolfPACKTM Silicon Carbide Power Modules Family. 
Released the Wolfspeed® 650V Silicon Carbide MOSFETs, delivering a wider range of industrial applications and enabling the next generation of Electric Vehicle (EV) onboard charging, data centers, and other renewable systems with industry leading power efficiency.
2021. 
Released the Wolfspeed WolfPACKTM Power modules which are designed to bridge the gap between single die discrete components and high-ampacity module solutions. WolfPACKTM modules make system design flexible, using press-fit pins to make both prototyping and manufacturing easy. With the simplicity of this module design, system layouts are simple with straightforward design and assembly processes. These new Wolfspeed WolfPACKTM modules come in all Silicon Carbide MOSFET half-bridge and all Silicon Carbide MOSFET six-pack configurations with a variety of milliohm options.
2 0 2 0. 
The Wolfspeed® 650V Silicon Carbide MOSFETs, applications for Electricle Vehlicle (EV) onboard charging, data centers, and other renewable systems with industry leading power efficiency.
2020. 
First Silicon Carbide MOSFET. 
Released industry’s first Silicon Carbide MOSFET, a market maker and key building block for more efficient power conversion systems, decreasing size, weight and bill of materials. 
First MOSFETs to Meet Automotive AEC-Q101 Standards. 
Released the first commercially available MOSFETs to meet Automotive AEC-Q101 Standards. 
XM3 Power Module Platform. 
Developed the XM3 power module platform which maximizes the benefits of Silicon Carbide, while keeping the module and system design robust, simple, and cost effective


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 11. 
The demand for Silicon Carbide is growing. Countries, states, and municipalities around the world are setting strict carbon emission standards, enacting new energy efficiency standards, and investing in cleaner energy programs, just as consumer adoption of electric vehicles continues to soar. The electrification of everything is underway, and Silicon Carbide is an essential resource in its success.
Wolfspeed is making investments in its capacity to meet this demand as we establish a Silicon Carbide corridor on the east coast.
Partnering to Build a Pipeline of High-Tech Professionals. 
We are working with education and business partners across the region to establish a robust pipeline for the next generation of high- quality, high tech jobs in the Mohawk Valley, including those we will need in advanced manufacturing. Our culture fosters an inclusive workplace, and our hiring efforts develop employees from the communities where we operate. We fuel long-term growth opportunities: for our team through an internal mobility practice that combines ongoing workforce development, leadership training, education assistance, and career path planning.
OUR PARTNERS • Alfred University • Cornell University • Fort Drum • Herkimer College • Hudson Valley Community College • Mohawk Valley Community College • Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute • Rochester Institute of Technology • SUNY Polytechnic Institute • Utica College. 
In 2022, Wolfspeed cut the ribbon on its new Marcy, NY Fab, the world’s first, largest and only 200mm Silicon Carbide fab. It is complemented by our mega materials factory expansion currently underway at our Durham, North Carolina headquarters. The new fabrication facility will dramatically increase production capacity and will help lead the industry-wide transition from silicon to Silicon Carbide-based semiconductors. 100% automated. 
Increases wafer size from 150mm to 200mm. 
Will create 600 new jobs by 2026. 
Part of a $1B investment in expanding Wolfspeed’s production capacity. 
Reduces production touches from 10,000 to 0. 
Automotive-qualified. 
New York Governor Kathy Hochul was on site at the ribbon cutting to officially welcome Wolfspeed to Mohawk Valley, in addition to Eric Bach, Senior Vice President of Product and Chief Engineer at Lucid Motors. As a key partner, Lucid Motors had the honor of “cutting the ribbon” with its Lucid Air®, named the 2022 MotorTrend Car of the Year®.
EXPANDING CAPACITY FOR SILICON CARBIDE


Investing and Partnering in the Mohawk Valley to Build a High-Tech Workforce. 
We announced our plans to partner with local community and four-year colleges in North Carolina and New York to develop training and internship programs to prepare our workforce for the high-tech employment and long-term growth opportunities in both locations that our expansion plan presents.
As part of our ongoing, long-term commitment to the Mohawk Valley, we are working with academic institutions and other community and economic development partners to help expand the local economy and create a pipeline of high-tech professionals. In June 2020 we announced the funding of the Wolfspeed Scholarship and two endowed faculty chairs, named for two of Wolfspeed’s co-founders, John Edmond and John Palmour, to help ensure students who come from historically underserved or marginalized communities, as well as those with significant financial need, have greater access to the educational opportunities that will equip them to excel as part of tomorrow’s high-tech workforce.
“Wolfspeed is committed to providing students in our local communities with the opportunity to excel through STEM education initiatives, and it is an honor to help support these students as they continue their educational journeys connected to rewarding careers in STEM and as we work to train tomorrow’s high-tech workforce.” “Young and curious minds have long been a critical component of Wolfspeed’s success. Our community partnerships match Wolfspeed with the innovative thinkers of tomorrow and we are thrilled with the success of our partnership with SUNY Polytechnic University. Together, we will usher in a new era of energy efficiency and create a greener future for all.”
John Palmour Co-Founder & Chief Technology Officer. 
John Edmond Co-Founder & Research Fellow. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 12


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 13. 
Expanding with the Environment in Mind. 
We continuously explore options for sustainable building and operations practices to minimize our impact to the environment and conserve resources whenever possible. The following initiatives are in development at our Marcy, NY Fab:
BUILDING EFFICIENCY. 
LEED certified. 
WATER RECYCLING 60k gal recycled per day. 
ENERGY SAVINGS 5000+ MWh of annual energy savings are built into the design of our new fab. 
RENEWABLE ENERGY 50% of our electricity is from carbon-free or low-carbon sources. 
WATER SAVINGS 500k+ gal of annual water savings. 
EV CHARGING 14 new electric vehicle (EV) charging stations. 
With our LEED certification, you know the world’s largest Silicon Carbide fabrication facility operates with efficiency. Our buildings have energy, water and waste savings built into their design.
Energy efficient products means energy efficient operations. Our new Marcy, NY Fab has 100% energy efficient LED lighting and energy efficient ventilation fans, saving us energy year over year. Also, approximately 50% of our energy will come from carbon-free or low- carbon sources based on the local energy grid mix and a ReCharge NY award.
The new EV charging stations at our Marcy, NY Fab are estimated to result in an annual reduction of over 100,000 lbs of CO2 emissions.
Various initiatives, including collecting rainwater for irrigation and installing lowflow faucets, will help offset our annual water needs, and our water recycling system offsets purchases of new water.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 14. 
SUSTAINABILITY 2022


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 15. 
We consider the health and well-being of each individual associated with the Wolfspeed community as our primary responsibility. We have established stringent rules for material sourcing, supplier selection, and employee health and safety, while also promoting community engagement and education programs.
SUSTAINABILITY MISSION AND PRINCIPLES. 
The best for our employees, our environment and our communities. 
Our Sustainability Mission Our purpose extends beyond our products. Our business is built on the power of Silicon Carbide and the innovative possibilities unleashed by this technology. Always at the forefront of technology revolutions, we serve as a catalyst for driving change that transforms our communities, industries, and our world by powering more and consuming less.
This is Wolfspeed.
We strive to minimize resource use and reduce the environmental impact of our production process. We are committed to responsibly managing environmental impacts, including being in compliance with environmental legislation as a minimum, and ensuring continual improvement in our environmental performance. Our product sustainability goals are simple: enable our customers to invent power and wireless systems for a responsible, energy efficient future. We are committed to responsibly managing our products from cradle to grave as we lead the innovation and commercialization of Silicon Carbide and gallium nitride.
Our Board of Directors sets high standards for our employees, officers and directors. We are committed to transparency of our sustainability information and data.
At Wolfspeed, we relentlessly pursue disruptive technologies that change industries. We operate at the highest ethical standards and actively manage risks inside and outside of the organization to ensure long-term financial performance. We adhere to the policies outlined in the Code of Conduct and require our suppliers to adhere to strict social and environmental standards, as described in our Supplier Code of Conduct.
Our Sustainability Principles. 
People First, People Always. 
Processes that Protect the Environment, Products that Improve it. 
Absolute Commitment to Integrity and Transparency. 
Responsible Business Practices, Innovating for a Better Future


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 16. 
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS. 
Processes that Protect the Environment, Products that Improve it. 
OUR GOAL. 
Increase water recycling rate by 25% by 2025. 
OUR AMBITION. 
Ensure sustainable and efficient use of water across all sectors. Become a leader in addressing water scarcity.
OUR GOAL • Reduce scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 50% by 2030 • Achieve net zero scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2050*
OUR AMBITION. 
Actively fight against climate change and reduce our and others’ carbon footprint; Stay efficient, stay productive. Be a company that makes a difference for future generations.
OUR GOAL. 
Achieve 85% waste diversion rate from landfill by 2025. 
OUR AMBITION. 
Be a company that directs to zero waste through waste reduction and recycling.
GREENHOUSE GASES WATER WASTE. 
OUR GOAL. 
Establish STEM partnerships at 100% of our major locations by 2025. 
OUR AMBITION. 
Close the opportunity gap by providing more opportunities for STEM education, at all levels, to people in need, particularly in underserved communities.
OUR GOAL. 
Establish a certified Occupational Health & Safety Management System for 100% of our manufacturing sites by 2025 2021 PROGRESS. 
OUR AMBITION. 
Providing a safe and healthful work environment is paramount to our success and protects our most valuable resource, our employees.
HEALTH & SAFETY COMMUNITY. 
People First, People Always. 
We maintain a firm commitment to responsibly conducting business alongside an acute awareness of our role in enabling a more sustainable future. To that end, this year we established our first corporate-wide sustainability goals. These goals will drive our sustainability strategy and efforts, which align with our organization structure, core competencies and culture, and unite our business units, global locations and functions.
* We also established a longterm goal of reducing scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with the Paris Agreement to further reduce our climate impact in support of limiting warming to 1.5°C and transitioning to a net-zero carbon economy.
Learn more >
Learn more >
Learn more >
Learn more >
Learn more >
ON TRACK LEGEND: ATTENTION NEEDED


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 17. 
Absolute Commitment to Integrity and Transparency. 
Responsible Business Practices, Innovating for a Better Future. 
OUR GOAL. 
Complete three risk plans/ year under our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program by 2025. 
OUR AMBITION. 
Use a defined and concise method to easily gather the data needed to evaluate sustainability risks.
RISK MANAGEMENT. 
OUR GOAL. 
Achieve >5% supply chain spend from diverse suppliers by 2025. 
OUR AMBITION. 
Improve resiliency through our diversity efforts and reduce inequalities across our supply chain.
OUR GOAL. 
Evaluate ESG risks and opportunities for 100% of suppliers on our Approved Supplier List by 2025. 
OUR AMBITION. 
Assess suppliers on social and environmental risks to strengthen partnerships with those with best practices.
SUPPLY CHAIN DIVERSITY. 
OUR GOAL. 
Achieve a score of B or better on all CDP surveys by 2025*
OUR AMBITION. 
Actively and continuously work to improve our disclosures and ratings through major reporting frameworks to drive continuous improvement efforts.
TRANSPARENCY 2021 PROGRESS. 
ON TRACK LEGEND: ATTENTION NEEDED *Applicable to relevant surveys for Wolfspeed (climate change, water security, supplier engagement).
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS (CONTINUED)
Learn more >
Learn more >
Learn more >
Learn more >


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 18 2021 SUSTAINABILITY MILESTONES. 
Launched our new Mental Health Allies Employee Resource Group. Launched our Matching Gifts Program Hosted our Wolfspeed 2021 Virtual STEM Day for employees and their children with partner North Carolina Science Olympiad, focused on environmental sustainability of tomorrow. 
Provided a COVID-19 safe, drive-through Veteran Source Fair. 
Provided a financial contribution to North Carolina Arts in Action. 
Developed our first corporate-wide sustainability goals. 
We recycled over 46 million gallons of water in 2021. 
Presented at Morgan Stanley 2021 Global Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference. 
Participated in Wake Tech collaboration that aimed to increase minority women in STEM careers in Wake County, North Carolina. 
Completed sale of our LED Business to SMART Global Holdings, Inc.
CEO Gregg Lowe included in Business North Carolina’s inaugural “Power List”
Hosted and sponsored the Triangle Go Red for Women STEM event. 
Donated unused 3/4” marine-grade plywood, covering approximately 200,000 square feet, to MVCC Foundation. 
Donated $25k to Mohawk Valley Community College. 
Announced a strategic supplier agreement to develop and provide Silicon Carbide Power device solutions for General Motors’ future electric vehicle programs Established a collaboration with ZINSIGHT Technology to bring Silicon Carbide technology to fuel cell vehicle engines to enhance efficiency. 
Completed a pioneering study with the Biophysical Economics Institute, demonstrating the superior performance of Silicon Carbide vs. traditional silicon semiconductor devices in electric vehicles. 
Listed on the NYSE under ticker ‘WOLF’ … Formally changed name to Wolfspeed. 
Received 2021 Gold and Silver Shovel Awards for the project of the year for our Marcy, NY Fab. 
Donated our Durham basketball goals and gym equipment to the local Boys & Girls Club as part of their Healthy Habits and Triple Play programs, which are geared toward exercising and healthy eating habits. 
JANUARY. 
JULY. 
MARCH MAY. 
OCTOBER. 
JUNE APRIL. 
AUGUST NOVEMBER DECEMBER


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 19. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING. 
Wolfspeed’s sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core Option. Our report also aligns with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) semiconductor standard and the Task Force on Climate- related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework. Our GRI Content Index, SASB Disclosures and TCFD Disclosures can be found in the Appendix of this report.
Wolfspeed also supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). How our business activities contribute to the SDGs are highlighted in the Our Contributions to the UN SDGs and UN SDGs Disclosures section of this report. Our Health and Safety information has been reported using guidance from the Center for Safety & Health Sustainability. Refer to the Materiality Assessment section below to learn more about how the content of this report was developed. We used an independent third party to perform a limited assurance verification of select sustainability report data. The Independent Assurance Statement can be found at the end of this report.
CDP. 
CDP runs a global disclosure system of self-reported environmental data.
In 2016, we disclosed our company-wide GHG emissions and climate change risks and opportunities to CDP for the first time and in 2020, we disclosed our company-wide water inventory and water risks and opportunities to CDP for the first time. We will continue calculating our GHG emissions and tracking our water data in the future because measuring GHG emissions and water data helps us recognize and work toward lowering our environmental impact. Visit cdp.net or our Sustainability Reporting page to view our responses to the CDP Climate Change Survey and CDP Water Security Survey, including supply chain modules.
OUR GOAL. 
Achieve a score of B or better on all CDP surveys by 2025* 2021 PROGRESS. 
Achieved B on the CDP Climate Change survey. 
Improved CDP Water Security score from C to B. 
OUR AMBITION. 
Actively and continuously work to improve our disclosures and ratings through major reporting frameworks to drive continuous improvement efforts. 
CDP CLIMATE CHANGE CDP WATER SECURITY CDP SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT 2019 B N/A D 2020 B C D 2021 B B D *Applicable to relevant surveys for Wolfspeed (climate change, water security, supplier engagement).


SOCIAL. 
Employee Diversity and Equal Opportunity. 
Community Engagement (Local & Global)
Sourcing of Conflict Minerals. 
Code of Conduct. 
Labor and Employment Practices. 
Employee Attraction/ Development Retention. 
Occupational Health and Safety. 
ENVIRONMENTAL. 
Water Scarcity. 
Climate Change. 
Raw Material Resource Scarcity. 
Water and Wastewater Management. 
Air Emissions. 
Waste Management. 
Energy Efficiency of Operations. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE. 
Political Activity/Lobbying. 
Geo-political issues. 
International Trade Regulations. 
International Standards Compliance (REACH, RoHS, ISO 14001)
Risk Management. 
Stakeholder Dialogue/Transparency. 
Corporate Governance. 
Regulatory Compliance. 
Intellectual Property Security (Cyber & Data Security)
Ethical Business Practices. 
PRODUCT. 
Packaging Contains Recyclable Materials. 
Recognition/Awards. 
Customer Health and Safety. 
Product End-of-Life Disposal. 
Product Compliance. 
Energy Efficiency of Products. 
Product Affordability. 
Customer Satisfaction. 
Product Innovation. 
Product Quality. 
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT. 
To better understand which environmental, social, economic, governance, and product topics are material to Wolfspeed, we have engaged with our internal and external stakeholders. Internal stakeholders involved in our materiality assessment included employees of different departments within Wolfspeed. For our external stakeholder analysis, we reached out to suppliers, distributors, contract manufacturers, customers, investors, and trade associations. Other stakeholders who were not involved in the materiality assessment include insurers, competitors, government agencies, and community members.
For stakeholder groups that we did not reach out to or if we did not receive responses from a stakeholder group during the materiality assessment, we referred to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) standard for the semiconductor industry to ensure that our material topics chosen during our assessment were consistent with the semiconductor industry.
The results of the materiality assessment help us to better prioritize our areas of focus. We used the results of our initial materiality assessment and updated materiality assessment in 2020 to review our materiality assessment in 2021, which is presented in the table on the next page. The material topics shown in the table on the next page are reported on in greater detail per the GRI Standards. The topics we considered during our materiality assessment are as follows:
ECONOMIC. 
Contribution to Regional/ Local Development. 
Indirect Economic Impacts. 
Growth in Emerging Markets. 
Mergers and Acquisitions. 
Supply Chain/Sourcing Issues Financial Performance. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 20


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 21. 
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT REPORT. 
Material Issue Importance to Upstream Importance to Wolfspeed Importance to Downstream. 
ENVIRONMENTAL. 
Climate Change High High High. 
Water and Wastewater Management High High Medium. 
Waste Management Low High Low. 
Energy Efficiency of Operations Low High Medium. 
SOCIAL. 
Employee Diversity and Equal Opportunity Low High Medium. 
Community Engagement (Local and Global) Low High Medium. 
Labor and Employment Practices Medium High High. 
Employee Attraction/Development/Retention Low High Low. 
Occupational Health and Safety Low High Medium. 
ECONOMIC. 
Contribution to Regional/Local Development Medium High Low. 
Supply Chain/Sourcing Issues High High High. 
Financial Performance Low High Low. 
PRODUCT. 
Customer Satisfaction Low High High. 
Product Innovation Low High High. 
Product Quality Medium High High. 
Acceleration of Sustainable Technologies Medium High High. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE. 
International Trade Regulations High High High. 
Risk Management Low High Medium. 
Intellectual Property Security (Cyber & Data Security) High High High. 
In 2021, we reported additional information for the following areas: • Business Continuity Management (Refer to the Corporate Governance section of this report) • Information Security (Refer to the Corporate Governance section of this report) • Circular Economy (Refer to the Environment section of this report)
These topics provide further detail for material topics of: • Risk Management • Intellectual Property Security (Cyber and Data Security) • Waste Management. 
Our material topics in the Materiality Assessment Report’s table remain the same.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 22. 
We have reported on how our operations and business activities contribute to the UN SDGs. Refer to the UN SDGs Disclosures section of this report for more information about how the UN SDGs and their specific targets align with our business focus, strategy, and material issues • At Wolfspeed, we believe everyone should have a roof over their heads, enough to eat, and an opportunity to excel. It is impossible for children to achieve at their highest level when they are worried about where they will sleep at night, or where their next meal will come from. Working with our community partners to meet these needs not only helps address the opportunity gap, but also helps students focus on achieving their full potential through STEM education programs. This work builds important relationships with our community neighbors, including those historically underserved communities, with the same spirit of innovation and passion that drives our business. Working closely with our charitable corporate partners, we are able to focus our efforts on addressing homelessness, diversity, and social injustice, as well as increasing awareness of the opportunities provided through STEM.
• We expanded our global partnerships with organizations focused on increasing representation in STEM in underserved communities and for marginalized and underrepresented individuals. An example of this is our partnership with the Society of Women in Engineering (SWE). We are a member of SWE’s Corporate Partnership Council, which allows us a global reach to those identifying as female at the middle/high school, collegiate, and professional levels.
• We partnered with the Cristo Rey Research High School to sponsor work study opportunities for students with limited economic resources.
• All United States locations were provided $5,000 per quarter to support their location-specific volunteer activities and community partnerships for programs in support of STEM education, food and hunger relief, and combating homelessness.
• We have a sustainability goal to promote STEM education opportunities in the communities in which we operate:
Establish STEM partnerships at 100% of our major locations by 2025. 
OUR CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE UN SDGs. 
OUR APPROACH OUR 2021 ACTIVITIES OUR GOALS AND CERTIFICATIONS


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 23 • At Wolfspeed, we believe everyone should return home healthy and safe every day. We have occupational health and safety programs to ensure the safety of our workplace through evaluation and prevention measures. Wolfspeed supports the well-being of our employees through programs that support a healthy lifestyle. We are committed to offering benefits to employees and their families to assist in improving health and lifestyle choices. Programs throughout our operations are tailored to the needs of the employees in the region and include many health-related benefits. We also have programs for our employees’ mental health including employee assistance programs and our Mental Health Allies Employee Resource Group (ERG).
• At Wolfspeed, we continuously strive to implement best management practices that conserve and recycle water and prevent and reduce water pollution. With our new state-of-the-art, automotive-qualified 200mm-capable wafer fabrication facility in Marcy, NY, complemented by our materials factory expansion currently underway at our Durham, NC headquarters, we will remain dependent on good quality water and anticipate our total water dependency to increase in the future. We continuously explore options for water recycle improvements to help offset the expected increase in water withdrawals as we expand.
• We initiated the process of registering our Occupational Health and Safety Management System to ISO45001:2018. Plans are to place it under the umbrella of a unified Environment, Health and Safety Management.
• We launched an enhancement to our existing management of change process and application with the support of top management.
• We re-introduced our onsite physical therapy services at our manual labor profuse facility in Durham, NC.
• We improved the reporting of EHS Enterprise-wide metrics within Global Operations where top management begins operations meetings with a review of EHS performance.
• We performed a company-wide water risk assessment to better understand our current and future water-related risks. • We continued looking into opportunities to conserve or recycle water.
• We have a sustainability goal to further ensure the health and safety of our employees:
Establish a certified Occupational Health & Safety Management System for 100% of our manufacturing sites by 2025 • Our owned manufacturing operations are certified to ISO 14001:2015.
• We have the following sustainability goals to further reduce our water-related impacts and increase the transparency of our water-related risks and opportunities:
Increase water recycle rate by 25% by 2025. 
Achieve a score of B or better on all CDP surveys by 2025. 
OUR APPROACH OUR APPROACH OUR 2021 ACTIVITIES OUR 2021 ACTIVITIES OUR GOALS AND CERTIFICATIONS OUR GOALS AND CERTIFICATIONS


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 24 • We’re leading the transformation from silicon to Silicon Carbide and gallium nitride as we shape the future of semiconductor markets: the transition to electric vehicles, the move to faster 5G networks, the evolution of renewable energy and energy storage, and the advancement of industrial applications. After more than thirty-five years of forging new technology adoption and transformation, our Wolfspeed® Power and Radio Frequency (RF) semiconductors are leading the industry through unrivaled expertise and capacity.
• Wolfspeed is committed to fostering a culture of diversity, equity & inclusion by celebrating all employee differences and identities. Because we believe diversity, equity & inclusion drives better business results, we celebrate our employees’ authenticity and understand that diverse ideas, perspectives, thinking styles, and backgrounds produce higher quality decisions, enabling us to solve problems other companies think to be impossible. We are also committed to reducing inequalities in the communities in which we operate. We partner with municipalities, civic organizations, and advocacy groups to help ensure our community is one that addresses any inequities in opportunity. We are out to prove that any societal disadvantage can be overcome with adequate resources and support so that all are free to pursue and achieve a productive, fulfilling life.
• Launched our new Mental Health Allies Employee Resource Group.
• Included diverse supplier language into our request for proposal process and added diverse goals in contracts for our expansion projects.
• For PRIDE month in June 2021, we launched the “Why I’m an Ally” campaign that highlights employees who are allies to the LGBTQ+ community and the reasons behind their allyship.
• We released the Wolfspeed WolfPACKTM Power modules, which are designed to bridge the gap between single die discrete components and high-ampacity module solutions. WolfPACKTM modules make system design flexible, using press-fit pins to make both prototyping and manufacturing easy. With the simplicity of this module design, system layouts are simple with straightforward design and assembly processes. These new Wolfspeed WolfPACKTM modules come in all Silicon Carbide MOSFET half-bridge and all Silicon Carbide MOSFET six-pack configurations with a variety of milliohm options.
• Our capacity expansion plans include working toward a 30-fold increase in Silicon Carbide wafer fabrication capacity and 30-fold increase in Silicon Carbide materials production to meet expected market growth for these technologies.
• Depending on the facility, our manufacturing operations are certified to ISO 14001:2015, ISO 9001: 2015, IATF 16949: 2016, and/or AS 9100D.
• We have a sustainability goal to promote reduced inequalities in our supply chain:
Achieve greater than 5% supply chain spend from diverse suppliers by 2025. 
OUR APPROACH OUR APPROACH OUR 2021 ACTIVITIES OUR 2021 ACTIVITIES OUR GOALS AND CERTIFICATIONS OUR GOALS AND CERTIFICATIONS


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 25 • At Wolfspeed, we continuously strive to reduce the overall impacts of our manufacturing processes, including substituting sustainable resources in place of non-renewable resources, reusing or recycling materials wherever technically possible and economically reasonable, and minimizing waste and disposing of waste safely and responsibly.
• Our manufacturing operations continued to evaluate and optimize processes to minimize chemical usage without negatively impacting product quality, thereby reducing the amount of chemicals required in some processes. We also worked to utilize chemicals in bulk fill drums to reduce the amount of residual chemicals after use.
• We continued looking into opportunities to reduce, reuse, and recycle our waste.
• Our owned manufacturing operations are certified to ISO 14001:2015.
• We have the following sustainability goals to further reduce our waste and water-related impacts:
Increase water recycle rate by 25% by 2025. 
Achieve 85% waste diversion rate from landfill by 2025. 
OUR APPROACH OUR 2021 ACTIVITIES OUR GOALS AND CERTIFICATIONS • Wolfspeed was founded upon the premise that our Silicon Carbide based technology for Power and Radio Frequency (RF) devices could fundamentally change the efficiency of energy use around the world. Our mission is to lead the innovation and commercialization of Silicon Carbide and gallium nitride, liberating designers to invent power and wireless systems for a responsible, energy efficient future. We have always focused our priorities on improving the energy efficiency of our products, which in turn have a lower impact on the environment and climate change. In addition to providing energy efficient products, we strive to reduce GHG emissions and improve energy efficiency at all Wolfspeed sites.
• Our Power and RF products sold in 2021 will save approximately 113 million MWh and 42 million metric tons CO2e over their estimated lifetimes compared to less efficient alternative products (e.g., silicon-based Power products, silicon- or gallium arsenide-based RF products).
• We are currently exploring GHG abatement technologies for our facilities and in 2020 and 2021 began installing abatement devices at our Durham and RTP, NC manufacturing facilities.
• In 2019, we began planning for a project to eliminate the use of one of our greenhouse gases with a high global warming potential (GWP) in one of our manufacturing processes. This project entered the testing phase 2020-2021. Testing was successful and is planned to be funded in the near future.
• Our owned manufacturing operations are certified to ISO 14001:2015. • We have the following sustainability goals to further reduce our GHG and climate-related impacts:
Reduce scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 50% by 2030. 
Achieve net zero scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2050*
Achieve a score of B or better on all CDP surveys by 2025**
OUR APPROACH OUR 2021 ACTIVITIES OUR GOALS AND CERTIFICATIONS * We also established a long-term goal of reducing scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with the Paris Agreement to further reduce our climate impact in support of limiting warming to 1.5°C and transitioning to a net-zero carbon economy.
**Applicable to relevant surveys for Wolfspeed (climate change, water security, supplier engagement).


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 26. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2022


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 27. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE. 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMMITTEE COMPOSITION • Corporate Governance Principles • Anti-Corruption Statement • Articles of Incorporation • Corporate Bylaws • Compensation Committee Charter • Governance and Nominations Committee Charter • Audit Committee Charter • Code of Conduct • Code of Ethics for Executive Officers and Other Senior Financial Personnel • Supplier Code of Conduct. 
Implicit in our sustainability philosophy is the importance of sound corporate governance. It is the duty of the Board of Directors to serve as a prudent fiduciary for shareholders and to oversee the management of our business. To fulfill its responsibilities and to discharge its duty, the Board of Directors follows the procedures and standards that are set forth in these guidelines. These guidelines are subject to modification from time to time as the Board of Directors deems appropriate in the best interests of Wolfspeed or as required by applicable laws and regulations.
Corporate Governance Documents. 
Our Board of Directors plays a critical role in our operations and vision. Our Board is the ultimate authority over the company, and its members are selected based on their significant executive experience. Our Board of Directors meets quarterly at a minimum to review topics such as corporate strategy, product development, finances and operations, among other relevant corporate matters. Directors also serve on different Board Committees as detailed in the table below. More information about our Board of Directors can be found on our Board of Directors and Committee Composition pages on wolfspeed.com and in the Diversity, Equity & Inclusion section of this report.
Board Member Audit Committee Governance and Nominations Committee Compensation Committee. 
Glenda M. Dorchak I M M. 
John C. Hodge I M M. 
Clyde R. Hosein I C M. 
Darren R. Jackson I M M. 
Duy-Loan T. Le I M M. 
John B. Replogle I M C. 
Marvin A. Riley I M M. 
Thomas H. Werner I M C. 
Gregg A. Lowe. 
I = Independent Director C = Chairperson M = Member. 
Our Board of Directors sets high standards for our employees, officers and directors. We are committed to the transparency of our sustainability information and data.
ABSOLUTE COMMITMENT TO INTEGRITY AND TRANSPARENCY


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 28. 
CODE OF CONDUCT. 
BUSINESS CONTINUITY MANAGEMENT. 
Our Code of Conduct applies to every Wolfspeed employee around the world, including our Board of Directors and governs every business decision we make. Our Values are at the core of our success and the Code of Conduct embodies and reinforces our commitment to act in a manner consistent with our Values and put them into practice every day. Our Code of Conduct is available on wolfspeed.com.
Wolfspeed has been at the forefront of innovation for more than thirty years. Today, we are known for leading the worldwide transition from silicon to Silicon Carbide, powering a more efficient and sustainable future across electric vehicle, 5G and industrial applications. So, with innovation at the core of our company culture, it was natural for us to apply that same mentality to how we maintain continuity of operations. Here’s a look at how we keep our business running to continually serve our customers, even when unexpected challenges arise.
Overview. 
Part of Wolfspeed’s overall management systems, Business Continuity Management (BCM) establishes, implements, operates, monitors, and improves business continuity. Modeled using industry best known methods and practices, BCM provides a consistent methodology to address potential and realized business disruptions affecting our operations stemming from scenarios including, but not limited to:
Utility and infrastructure disruptions. 
External products and services disruptions. 
BCM plans, policies, and procedures. 
Labor shortages. 
Crisis Response Teams (CRTs)
Natural disasters. 
Annual training of key stakeholders and partners. 
Information technology outages and cyber attacks. 
Business Impact Analyses (BIAs) for Prioritized Activities. 
Fires. 
Annual testing and exercising of plans. 
Key equipment failures. 
Site-specific Risk Assessments. 
Application. 
Wolfspeed takes an all-hazards, risk-based approach to business continuity and crisis management to minimize negative impact on our operations. BCM contains structured planning, training, exercising, incident management, and quality monitoring processes. These include, but are not limited to:
Forward View. 
BCM is well-positioned and supported by Wolfspeed top management to ensure continued alignment with company growth, industry standards, and customer expectations. BCM is a vital tool in our effort to ensure organizational resilience for years to come.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 29. 
RISK MANAGEMENT. 
Risk management at Wolfspeed is a process undertaken by all functions within the business, including a review of risks related to financial and market performance, operational performance, emergency preparedness and response, environmental health and safety compliance, among other areas. In addition, we have established a formal Enterprise Risk Management program in order to identify, assess, prioritize, and manage key enterprise risks. Sustainability-related risks and opportunities are also discussed and addressed as part of this program. Our Material business risks are listed in our periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in our Annual Reports. Our water-related risks can be found in the Water Management section of this report. Our risks associated with climate change can be found in the TCFD Disclosures Risk Management and Climate Change Risks subsections of this report.
SUSTAINABILITY OVERSIGHT. 
Our Board of Directors is responsible for oversight of management’s sustainability efforts at Wolfspeed, led by the Governance and Nominations Committee. This Committee assists our Board of Directors in discharging its oversight responsibility related to environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters such as climate change impacts, energy and natural resources conservation, environmental and supply chain sustainability, human rights, employee health, safety and well-being, diversity and inclusion, corporate charitable and philanthropic activities and other sustainability issues that are relevant and material to Wolfspeed. Reporting regularly to the full Board, this Committee provides guidance on these issues and performs an oversight role in shaping Wolfspeed’s sustainability strategy, including goal and target development. Sustainability-related information covering a range of topics is presented to our Board of Directors at least once per year, or more frequently as important matters arise, by our Senior Vice President of Legal & General Counsel. Management with direct responsibility for developing and tracking sustainability information at Wolfspeed includes employees from various departments, including Environment, Health and Safety, Human Resources (which includes Diversity, Equity and Inclusion), Operations (which includes Supply Chain and Product Quality), and Legal. When relevant, we also engage with employees from Corporate Sales, Marketing, and Finance (which includes Investor Relations).
OUR GOAL. 
Complete three risk plans/ year under our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program by 2025 2021 PROGRESS. 
Completed three new risk plans. 
Updated three risk plans. 
Tagged “Risk Owners” to each identified key risk. 
Continued to make progress to improve and mature ERM program. 
OUR AMBITION. 
Use a defined and concise method to easily gather the data needed to evaluate sustainability risks. 
The Board, acting itself or through one or more of its committees, has general oversight responsibility for corporate risk management, including oversight of top management’s implementation of risk management practices. While the Board is responsible for risk oversight, top management is ultimately responsible for assessing and managing our risk exposures. The Board directly oversees top management’s assessment, mitigation efforts and monitoring of strategic and operational risks, such as those relating to competitive dynamics, market trends and developments in our industry, changes in economic conditions, cybersecurity and sustainability. Top management regularly updates business plans for each of our product lines, including an assessment of strategic and operational risks and responses to identified risks, and members of the Board and top management meet annually to review these plans. In addition, top management reports to the Board at each quarterly Board meeting on progress made against these strategic plans, including an update on changes in risk exposure and management’s responses to the changes.


INFORMATION SECURITY. 
Information security is a key priority at Wolfspeed. Vital to the digital and physical safety of our global operations and the customers we serve, we use a multilayered cyber security approach to protect our people, assets, and intellectual property (IP). Everyone at Wolfspeed receives ongoing training in order to play an active role in mitigating threats and protecting our systems and data.
Active participation in Information Security Awareness Training, adherence to information security policies and procedures, and recognition and reporting of suspicious activities all contribute to the governance and safety of our environment.
In 2022, the Wolfspeed Information Security Team and other business organizations worked together to build upon our layered defenses and fine-tune our existing security controls to achieve more accurate and rapid detection of incidents. The Team also performed routine vulnerability testing and security assessments using industry standard frameworks to identify and incrementally improve our capabilities.
Wolfspeed aligns with the best practices and standards developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).
OUR GOAL. 
Ensure the security of our data and systems and availability of our global operations. 
OUR AMBITION. 
Protect information and data assets from threats and vulnerabilities by mitigating information risk. 
NIST. 
Recover Protect. 
Identify. 
Respond Detect. 
Recover Action taken to maintain plans for resilience and to restore capabilities or services that were impaired during a cybersecurity event.
Respond Action taken for a detected cybersecurity event.
Identify Organizational understanding to manage cybersecurity risks to systems, people, assets and capabilities. Protect Cybersecurity safeguards to protect assets and delivery of critical infrastructure services.
Detect Monitoring and surveillance activities to identify the occurrence of a cybersecurity event.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 30


Change Management Wolfspeed maintains a modern, active change management process to ensure that all changes made to any production environment are applied in a safe, forward-looking, deliberate manner. All changes to systems and network devices, along with physical and environment changes, are monitored and controlled through a formal change control process.
System Backups Wolfspeed uses industry standard backup procedures for all data created by users. These backups are performed on a regular cadence and stored in multiple locations.
Network Security Our infrastructure resides behind high-availability firewalls and is monitored for the detection and prevention of various network security threats. Network Access controls are utilized to help restrict access to systems from external networks and between systems internally. By default, all access is denied and only explicitly allowed ports and protocols are allowed based on specific business needs. Wolfspeed maintains separate development and production environments. These environments are segmented using modern networking techniques to create secure partitions to ensure that testing and production data and code do not directly interact.
Vulnerability Management Security assessments are performed on a regular basis to identify vulnerabilities and to determine the effectiveness of the change management program. Each vulnerability is reviewed to determine if it is applicable, ranked based on risk, and assigned to the appropriate team for remediation.
Patch Management Wolfspeed strives to apply the latest patches and updates to operating systems, applications, and network infrastructure to mitigate exposure to vulnerabilities, with a specific emphasis on security-related patches. Patches are tested using partitioned development environments prior to being deployed into production.
Secure Network Connections TLS encryption is configured for customer web application access using modern cypher suites to ensure that user data in transit is safe, secure, and available only to intended recipients. The level of encryption is negotiated dependent on what the web browser can support.
Role-Based Access Role-based access controls are implemented for access to web systems. Access controls to data in our systems and environments are set on a need-to-know/least privilege necessary basis.
Authentication and Authorization We require that authorized users be provisioned with unique account IDs. Our password policy covers all applicable systems and applications. Our password policies enforce the use of complex, unique passwords. Individuals are granted access to certain resources based on their specific job function. Requests for additional access follow a formal process that involves a request and an approval as defined by our security guidelines.
Software Development Lifecycle We follow a defined methodology for developing secure software that is designed to increase the resiliency and trustworthiness of our website. Security and security testing are directly part of the entire software development process. Quality Assurance is involved at each phase of the lifecycle of the site. Wolfspeed mandates that security best practices are implemented as part of all development activities.
Data Protection We apply an industry standard set of data management principles to customer data that Wolfspeed may process, handle, or store. We protect personal data using appropriate physical, technical, and organizational security practices, acting in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Any identifiable information that we may process, handle or store is encrypted at rest and in transit as appropriate. We give additional attention and care to sensitive personal data and respect local laws and customs, where applicable. We take all reasonable steps to protect information we receive from our customers from loss, misuse or unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration and/or destruction.
Web-based Information Security. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 31


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 32. 
ECONOMIC 2022


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 33. 
At Wolfspeed, we relentlessly pursue disruptive technologies that change industries. We operate at the highest ethical standards and actively manage risks inside and outside of the organization to ensure strong long-term financial performance. We adhere to the policies outlined in the Code of Conduct and require our suppliers to adhere to strict social and environmental standards, as described in our Supplier Code of Conduct.
The majority of the data included in this report is on a calendar year basis (January to December). Financial data is reported on a fiscal year basis (July to June). Our financial data for FY 2021 can be found in our 2021 Annual Report.
All our products must satisfy industry standards, our customers’ expectations, and our own. We test our products and simulate them in harsh environments to confirm their reliability. We follow AEC, IATF, ISO9001, AS9100, and JEDEC standards (see details below). Wolfspeed has representation on key industry and technical committees to drive the adoption of Silicon Carbide.
At Wolfspeed, we W.I.N. with Quality. Every employee is responsible for ensuring the highest level of quality in our products and services to achieve customer satisfaction and meet applicable requirements. We are dedicated to continual improvement, customer satisfaction, and our corporate values.
FY 2021 $525.6M Wolfspeed Revenue. 
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES, INNOVATING FOR A BETTER FUTURE. 
PRODUCT QUALITY. 
QUALITY POLICY (WIN)
W. 
I
N. 
Work transparently with our customers; listen, understand and exceed customer expectations. 
Innovate and continuously improve our products, processes, and services. 
Never compromise Quality by always living our values: Integrity & Respect, Ingenuity & Passion, and Ownership & Accountability. 
W.I.N. WITH QUALITY. 
To ensure the highest Quality products and services to achieve customer satisfaction, we all must W.I.N.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 34. 
Our capacity expansion plans will allow us to respond to increasing customer demand, implementing quality strategies to further our quality culture, and investing in our people, processes, and systems will enable our growth and thereby meet this demand. Our strategy is to integrate our people, systems, and culture to drive quality as a competitive advantage. More information about our expansion efforts can be found in the Expanding Capacity for Silicon Carbide section of this report.
We’re advancing our total quality culture through zero-defect strategies such as statistical process control, factory defect reduction programs, and robust testing strategies. We’re also conducting supplier assessments and engaging in supplier development programs, all while we continue to focus on increasing overall customer satisfaction.
Build out experienced quality engineering teams. 
Invest in scaling quality management system and processes. 
Advance automotive culture through key quality initiatives. 
Process & Systems. 
Quality management systems and factory automation. 
Active engagement in risk mitigation. 
Proactive mindset. 
Culture. 
Behavior. 
Attitude. 
High quality product at optimized cost. 
Increased customer satisfaction. 
Enable zero defects. 
Meet automotive expectations


Our quality initiatives also include a focus on implementation and enhancement of 5S practices in our manufacturing operations.
GLOBAL OPERATIONS MANUFACTURING EXCELLENCE. 
WHAT IS IT? • A tool or approach to attain and maintain a high level of workplace organization • Engages employees to drive standardization and consistency • Provides visual cues when items are out of place. 
BENEFITS TO WOLFSPEED AND OUR CUSTOMERS? • Provides a safe workplace • Improves our production readiness • Demonstrates our commitment to our customers’ quality and process control expectations • Enables a culture for consistent, repeatable, predictable, and sustainable processing. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 35 5S


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 36. 
Wolfspeed achieved and implements the following standards to demonstrate our ability to consistently provide products and services that meet customer and regulatory requirements: • ISO 9001:2015: establishes criteria for a quality management system • ISO/TS 16949: establishes technical specifications for automotive sector quality management systems and is one of the most widely used international standards in the automotive industry, harmonizing the different assessment and certification systems in the global automotive supply chain • AS9100D standard includes ISO 9001:2015: describes quality management system requirements and specifies additional aviation, space, and defense industry requirements, definitions, and notes. 
The following sites are certified for our quality management systems. Click on the links below to view our ISO 9001 and IATF 16949 certificates. Our certificates can also be found on our Quality page on wolfspeed.com.
Durham, North Carolina • ISO 9001: 2015 • IATF 16949: 2016 • IATF Certificate of Registration Letter. 
RTP, North Carolina • ISO 9001: 2015 • IATF 16949: 2016 • Letter of Extension - ISO 9001:2015. 
Fayetteville, Arkansas • ISO 9001:2015 and AS 9100D. 
Morgan Hill, California • ISO 9001: 2015. 
Mesa, Arizona • ISO 9001: 2015


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 37. 
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION. 
Our customer support mission statement guides us to ensure we meet or exceed our customers’ expectations.
MISSION STATEMENT The mission of Wolfspeed’s customer service function is to always convey a passion for the customer and to consistently deliver the best service experience.
VISION STATEMENT Delivering customer satisfaction is about providing timely, responsive service with integrity, simplicity, and a passion for excellence while meeting or exceeding the customer’s expectations.
STATEMENT OF WORK Customer service is any activity provided by a Wolfspeed employee that enhances the ability of a customer to realize the full potential value of a Wolfspeed product or service before and after the sale is made, leading to increased customer satisfaction and repurchase.
CUSTOMER SERVICE PRINCIPLES • Recognize the importance of all customers and the role every Wolfspeed employee plays in influencing the customers’ perceptions. While engaging with customers, be professional, reliable, credible, responsive, and friendly.
• Communicate promptly and honestly. Try to be brief and clear.
• Be a voice for the customer.
• When a problem arises, view the problem as an opportunity to improve. Solving problems will enable us to raise the quality of our products and services.
• Listen well, be responsive, and demonstrate a sense of urgency. Understand that how something is said has significant influence on how it is received.
• Strive to make it easy for the customer to do business with Wolfspeed to ensure that Wolfspeed remains its preferred supplier.
GLOBAL TRADE COMPLIANCE. 
We recognize our compliance responsibilities and the importance of exercising care and due diligence in our international transactions and related recordkeeping practices. The Global Trade Compliance (GTC) team is tasked with ensuring compliance with export control laws and regulations, such as the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) and the Export Administration Regulations (EAR). Our mission is to support Wolfspeed’s business objectives while acting in full compliance with all applicable trade laws and regulations. Wolfspeed is CTPAT (Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism) certified, further illustrating our commitment to trade compliance and our partnership with the United States Government. As part of our GTC program, we screen all parties we enter business relationships with, including customers, distributors, and known end customers. We perform due diligence regarding the end use of our products, the ultimate end users, and the customers’ ability to comply with applicable end-use and re-export controls. Our GTC team must approve access for individuals to “export-controlled areas,” including both physical access and IT access to export-controlled technology. Due diligence is performed for possible red flags, including abnormal or unusual circumstances in a transaction that indicates that the export may be destined for an impermissible end-use, end-user, or destination. Wolfspeed employees receive Export Awareness Training as a part of their onboarding.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 38. 
SUPPLY CHAIN. 
We conduct our activities in a manner that reflects our Code of Conduct and Values, which include being a good corporate citizen, dealing fairly in business, behaving ethically, supporting basic human rights and a safe and healthy workplace, doing business in an environmentally responsible manner, and complying with applicable laws. We expect our suppliers to adhere to the same high standards and we are committed to ensuring that our supply chain reflects our values and beliefs through our Supplier Code of Conduct. Refer to the Supplier Resources page on wolfspeed.com to access our Supplier Code of Conduct and Purchase Order Terms and Conditions. Refer to our Small Business Program page on wolfspeed.com to learn about our commitment to maximizing opportunities for small businesses.
RESPONSIBLE MINERALS SOURCING. 
Wolfspeed, Inc. Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy. 
Mining is an intensive process involving potential social and environmental risks that may cause lasting negative impacts if not properly managed. Certain high-risk minerals (notably tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold, and cobalt) sourced from regions of the world with ongoing conflict carries a risk of funding organizations that are involved in illegal or unethical activities, including human rights abuses such as child labor, harsh working conditions, environmental destruction, and corruption. A growing awareness of the abuses committed in these areas of conflict has prompted an industry-wide investigation into any supply chain tainted by these atrocities. In the United States, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) requires publicly traded companies to report annually on the presence of conflict minerals originating in the DRC or adjoining countries in the products they manufacture or contract to manufacture. The purpose is to report any abuses, and through disclosure, halt the sourcing of designated minerals via supply chains implicated in conflict zones.
OUR GOAL. 
Evaluate ESG risks and opportunities for 100% of suppliers on our Approved Supplier List by 2025. 
Achieve >5% supply chain spend from diverse suppliers by 2025 2021 PROGRESS. 
Evaluated our current approach for suppliers. 
Partnered with Duke University in Durham, NC to develop supplier ESG risk assessment. 
Achieved 0.53% of the total spend with diverse suppliers. 
Added diverse supplier language to our RFP process. 
Included diverse spend goals to contracts for large expansion projects. 
Began targeting diverse spend with large distributors. 
OUR AMBITION. 
Assess suppliers on social and environmental risks to strengthen partnerships with those with best practices.
Improve resiliency through our diversity efforts and reduce inequalities across our supply chain.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 39. 
WOLFSPEED’S COMMITMENT. 
Wolfspeed’s Responsible Mineral Policy aligns with our commitment to uphold and respect fundamental human rights for all people, including those who work in our supply chain. Wolfspeed complies with applicable legislation and strongly supports industry-wide efforts to promote responsible sourcing, protect human rights, and combat child labor throughout the supply chain. Wolfspeed does not directly procure minerals from mines, or the smelters or refiners that process them, but believe we can influence upstream supply chain actors through our policies and practices. Recognizing the complexity of this issue, we are actively engaged with industry peers, suppliers, and other stakeholders to promote the responsible sourcing of minerals through the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI). Our goal is to work collaboratively through the supply chain to source minerals consistent with our values around human rights, business ethics, labor, health and safety practices, and environmental responsibility. We believe this can be done while continuing to source responsibly from the DRC and other high-risk regions.
Wolfspeed’s internal due diligence framework is designed to conform, in all material respects, to the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas (OECD Guidance) to determine the country of origin and chain of custody for high-risk minerals in our supply chain. To promote responsible investigations of high-risk minerals, Wolfspeed uses the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) and the Cobalt Reporting Template (CRT) issued by the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI).
SUPPLIER EXPECTATIONS. 
To support ethical procurement practices and responsible mineral sourcing, Wolfspeed expects suppliers that provide components and/ or materials containing “relevant minerals” to adhere to the same high standards to which we hold ourselves. For the purposes of Wolfspeed’s Responsible Minerals Sourcing program, relevant minerals currently include: • Columbite-tantalite (tantalum), Cassiterite (tin), gold and wolframite (tungsten) – also known as “conflict minerals” or 3TG”; • Cobalt; and • Any other mineral identified by Wolfspeed as contributing possible risk to the supply chain.
We require suppliers to: • Adhere to Wolfspeed’s Supplier Code of Conduct and all applicable laws and regulations related to mineral sourcing; • Source only from smelters and refiners validated by a third-party audit program. Accepted programs include: the RMI’s. 
Responsible Minerals Assurance Process, the LBMA’s Responsible Gold Certification; or the RJC’s Chain-of-Custody Program; • Make reasonable efforts to remove all non-participating and non-validated smelters or refiners from Wolfspeed’s supply chain; • Design and implement due diligence frameworks and management systems consistent with OECD Guidance to achieve responsible mineral supply chains; • Verify and inform Wolfspeed whether the minerals included in materials or component parts are conflict-affected or high-risk minerals; • Respond to Wolfspeed inquiries for reporting templates and due diligence information, and promptly implement corrective actions identified and requested by Wolfspeed; and • Extend these expectations to their own suppliers.
If these requirements are not met, Wolfspeed will proactively work with the supplier to further develop their due diligence capabilities to ensure alignment with Wolfspeed’s supplier requirements. Wolfspeed will terminate relationships with suppliers that do not make substantive and prompt efforts to comply with our policy.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 40. 
Listed Chemical Power Products RF Products. 
Diisononyl Phthalate (DINP)1 Packaging Only - All Power Chip Products Packaging Only -All RF Chip Products. 
Lead (Pb)2 All Schottky and MOSFET Components PTGA, PTMA. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION:
Prop 65 Link: https://oehha.ca.gov/proposition-65 Prop 65 Substance list: https://oehha.ca.gov/proposition-65/proposition-65-list. 
CALIFORNIA PROPOSITION 65. 
The California Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986, commonly referred to as “Proposition 65” or “Prop 65,” is a right-to-know law that is unique to the State of California. The goal of Prop 65 is to ensure that individuals in the State of California are informed about possible exposure to chemicals “known to the State of California to cause cancer and/or reproductive toxicity.” Under the law, the California Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (“OEHHA”) is tasked with maintaining a list of chemicals and updating the list at least annually. To date, there are over 900 chemicals listed by OEHHA, which can be found at https://oehha.ca.gov/proposition-65/proposition-65-list.
Historically, only manufacturers of end products had an obligation to notify Californians about significant amounts of chemicals in the products they purchase for their homes or workplaces. In late 2016, OEHHA adopted new regulations that went into effect on August 30, 2018. Proposition 65 now applies to suppliers of components used in end products to ensure that information about chemicals used in the components is communicated to Californians who might come into contact with the chemicals during the development, manufacture, or use of the end products.
To comply with Prop 65, businesses (including manufacturers, distributors, and retail sellers) must provide a “clear and reasonable” warning for listed chemicals unless exposure is low enough to pose “no significant risk” of cancer or is significantly below levels observed to cause birth defects or other reproductive harm. A Prop 65 warning does not necessarily mean a product is in violation of any product safety standards or requirements.
When one of these chemicals is present, Wolfspeed is required to disclose certain information to its customers and distributors, who in turn are required to disclose appropriate information to their customers. We created a website to help our customers and distributors identify impacted Wolfspeed products and the applicable downstream disclosures. Our products in the component product families listed in the table below contain one or more of the chemicals identified in Prop 65. Please refer to the product data sheet for each Wolfspeed product in the impacted Wolfspeed product families for more details on the disclosures applicable to that product.
[1] Wolfspeed’s semiconductor die products (excluding packaging) do not contain any chemicals that must be disclosed under California Proposition 65. However, the Wolfspeed semiconductor die products are packaged using a PVC die transfer film that contains DINP. An occupational warning must be provided to any customer that buys the Wolfspeed die for use in product development or manufacturing in the State of California. The customer in turn must prominently display a similar occupational warning at its California locations where employees and contractors will be handling the PVC die transfer film. Because the Wolfspeed die products themselves do not contain any chemicals that must be disclosed under California Proposition 65, incorporation of the die into another product will not create an obligation to include a Proposition 65 product warning on the higher-level product. However, the customer must ensure that the PVC die transfer film is properly handled and disposed of as a hazardous material after die removal.
[2]These Wolfspeed products contain lead (Pb). The lead is fully encapsulated in components used in the Wolfspeed products. So, unless the lead is accidentally or intentionally exposed, there is no chance that an employee, customer, or other individual will come into contact with the lead in Wolfspeed’s products. Nonetheless, Proposition 65 requires Wolfspeed to provide its California customers and distributors with both an occupational warning and a product warning for individuals who potentially could be exposed to the lead in the Wolfspeed products either accidentally or intentionally. An occupational warning must be provided to any customer that buys the impacted Wolfspeed products for use in product development or manufacturing in the State of California. The customer in turn must prominently display a similar occupational warning at its California locations where employees and contractors will be handling the Wolfspeed products that contain lead. In addition, because the Wolfspeed products contain lead, incorporation into another product will create an obligation to include a Proposition 65 product warning on the higher-level product. Please note, the amount of lead used in each Wolfspeed product remains below the ≤ 0.1% acceptance level in EU RoHS. In addition, these products continue to comply in accordance with EU RoHS exemptions 7A and 7C-1 for the bill of materials.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 41. 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2022


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 42. 
PEOPLE FIRST, PEOPLE ALWAYS. 
OUR EMPLOYEES. 
Our employees are valued and critical to our success. Wolfspeed is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and Affirmative Action (AA) employer, and employs regular full- and part-time employees, as well as temporary and contract employees as necessary. We also have rapidly developing intern and co-op programs.
Global Employees by Region. 
We consider the health and well-being of each individual associated with the Cree | Wolfspeed community as our primary responsibility. We have established stringent rules for material sourcing, supplier selection, and employee health and safety, while also promoting community engagement and education programs.
2021 Employees by Employment Contract/Status & Type1 2021 Employees by Region [1] Data presented here is for our significant locations of operations and represents approximately 91.1% of our total number of employees in calendar year 2021.
Employee Type Female Male Total. 
By Employment Contract/Status. 
Full Time/Part Time 1,339 3,099 4,438. 
Temporary 31 64 95. 
Total 1,370 3,163 4,533. 
By Employment Type. 
Full Time 1,352 3,146 4,498. 
Part Time 18 17 35. 
Total 1,370 3,163 4,533. 
North America Other Regions Total. 
By Employment Type. 
Full Time/Part Time 4,579 301 4,880. 
Temporary 95 0 95. 
Total 4,674 301 4,975 2019 2020 2021. 
Employees by Region. 
North America 3,029 3,653 4,674. 
Europe 46 64 78. 
Asia 83 128 223. 
Total 3,158 3,845 4,975


OUR EARLY CAREER EMPLOYEES. 
Our early career programs at Wolfspeed offer a variety of opportunities for students and new graduates. Participants gain real world experience through hands-on, project-based assignments designed to empower them and help them grow. We depend on this early career talent to continue to drive the innovation of the future.
Our Summer Internship Program. 
Launched in 2018, our summer internship program inspires contribution, culture, and community. From 2018 to 2019, we more than doubled the intern population, extended the program internationally, and increased the diversity rate by 25%. From 2019 to 2020, we increased our intern diversity numbers to include a 48% diverse population. In 2021, we had an intern class with 43% diversity. Some of the perks of our internship program include:
Direct interaction with senior leaders Community engagement. 
Professional development. 
On-site café and fitness center (NY & NC locations)
Mentor program. 
Attention to diversity and inclusion. 
Campus Ambassador Program. 
Networking with experts across the Company. 
Paid internships. 
Culture that fosters collaboration and innovation. 
Social and cultural events. 
Result-orientation contributions. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 43. 
Represents 2022 intern demographics. 
INTERNSHIP DIVERSITY DEMOGRAPHICS 43%
DIVERSE (SELF-REPORTED) 49%
IDENTIFY AS FEMALE RETURNING INTERNS 20%


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 44. 
Our Cooperative Education Program. 
In addition to our summer internship program, Wolfspeed also hosts college students who are part of their school’s cooperative education (co-op) program. Co-ops at Wolfspeed work either full-time or part-time outside of the summer months, utilizing lessons they have learned from their classes and applying them in our workplace. Co-op students are paid competitively while they work for us and gain the knowledge and experience needed for future internships or full-time entry level roles at Wolfspeed.
Our Wolfspeed Rotational Program. 
The Wolfspeed Rotational Program (WRP) offers participants the opportunity to work on strategic projects, build professional capabilities, get one-on-one career coaching, experience cross-functional collaboration, partake in community service, and grow in their professional development. Our WRP participants make immediate impacts on our business, allowing us to build a strong internal pipeline for the future.
The WRP kicked off in 2019 in the Sales & Marketing and Human Resources departments. By 2021, WRP had grown to include participants rotating throughout Global Operations and our Power business, while continuing in Sales & Marketing and Human Resources. Participants spend 12-24 months in the program, with multiple rotations throughout that duration.
Our former interns and co-op students are our main talent pipeline for the Wolfspeed Rotational Program. We also nominate early in career or career-changing internal employees to participate in WRP. We take pride in hiring diverse cohorts – called “Packs” – through our continued recruiting efforts at high caliber colleges and universities, with a strong focus on Historically Black Colleges & Universities (HBCUs) and Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs).
DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION. 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion: Overview. 
Wolfspeed is committed to fostering a culture of diversity, equity & inclusion by encompassing all employee differences and identities. We are building an environment where inclusivity is real and active rather than theoretical and static. Our diverse workforce contributes to our success and enables us to grow and continuously provide state-of-the- art technology and products.
Each of us must respect the diversity, talents, and abilities of others regardless of our differences. At Wolfspeed, we view diversity as including all the unique characteristics that make up each of us – and it’s far more than the diversity you can see. We embrace, encourage, and value diversity of thought, experience, insight, skill, and background. We’ve seen how diversity, equity & inclusion, separately and collectively, drive better business results; we celebrate our employees’ differences and authenticity. Diverse ideas, perspectives, thinking styles, and life experiences produce higher quality decisions and enable us to solve problems other companies think impossible. We gather motivated individuals who are true to their nature and beliefs, provide resources and room for growth, and harness the cumulative genius which is inherent in our human race.
We are devoted to fostering a culture of diversity and inclusion and believe that providing a work environment free from discrimination is paramount. We are proud to be an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and Affirmative Action (AA) employer, making hiring and promotion decisions based only on fair, unbiased evaluation of skills, work history, and performance. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion is supported by our stance against discrimination and our belief that all employees, regardless of their race, color, religion, gender, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, national origin, genetics, disability status, age, marital status, protected veteran status or any other protected class, contributes to our ongoing success. We strive to attract, develop, and retain a workforce that is as diverse as the markets we serve, resulting in an inclusive environment that embraces the strength of our differences.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 45. 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion is embedded in the following impactful pillars: talent acquisition Ensuring we can attract diverse talent talent management Ensuring we can keep and advance diverse talent culture Ensuring our environment is one that eliminates barriers to achievement of diverse talent social impact Ensuring our community is one that minimizes barriers to achievement. 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion: Social Justice. 
We continue to develop our activities in support of promoting social justice as well as diversity, equity & inclusion both inside and outside of the company. As we continue to promote and model a culture reflective of our values, which places a premium on integrity and respect, we provide space (with help from our Employee Resource Groups) to listen to our employees from across the organization to gather insight on what initiatives we should start, stop, or continue. We believe our employees are our greatest thought leaders. We understand this is a journey; listening and responding is an integral part of our strategy to impact change both internally and within the community. Below are just a few of the ways we promote social justice: • Increasing transparency around our recruiting policies • Providing unconscious bias and implicit bias workshops for everyone in the company, at all levels • Introducing new Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) to help drive inclusivity and advocate for policy change • Executing the MPower mentoring program • Implementing a matching gifts program, which was released in 2021, that allows employees to make contributions to causes they’re passionate about • Celebrating Juneteenth as a company-recognized holiday across all United States locations.
To commemorate the end of slavery in the United States, Juneteenth is celebrated every year on June 19th. Juneteenth is now a company-recognized holiday.
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 46. 
Our Matching Gifts Program. 
Our Matching Gifts Program supports programs focused on food and hunger relief, housing and emergency housing relief, educational and early intervention programs through science, technology, engineering and math (STEM), and programs aimed at closing the opportunity gap in our communities through the advancement of diversity, equity & inclusion and social justice initiatives. Through our Matching Gifts Program, each time an employee makes a donation to one of our identified agencies, we will match their donation dollar-for-dollar, up to $500 per employee in a fiscal year. Virtual dollars known as “Cause Cards” are provided to new employees when they join Wolfspeed to introduce them to the giving platform.
ERGs support our inclusion and diversity goals and objectives. Each ERG exists to benefit and advance its own group members by working strategically, both internally and externally, and while also helping to contribute to our business success. Since our last report was released, we have initiated four new ERGs.
Wolfspeed uses a DEI Scorecard to measure our progress toward DEI-related goals. Progress as outlined in our Scorecard is factored in all employees’ annual employee bonus. Our first Scorecard was launched in 2020 for FY2021. The results of our DEI Scorecard presented below are for FY2022, which spans from July 2021 through June 2022. All other data presented in the 2021 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Data section is based on the calendar year (January through December).
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion: DEI Scorecard. 
DEI Metric DEI Goal1 FY2022 Status1 Description of Activities. 
Percentage of Women in our Intern Program 50% Women ◐ 49% Women We are working to organically build diversity throughout the organization. Our goal is to attract and retain a diverse talent pool with a focus on early in career talent. Percentage of Underrepresented in our Intern Program 50% Underrepresented ◐ 43% Underrepresented. 
Percentage Increase of Women in Management 2% Increase from EOY FY21 ◐ 1% Increase in Women in Management We are working to increase diverse representation throughout the organization. Our goal is to attract and retain a diverse talent pool with a focus on management and people leader roles. Percentage Increase of Underrepresented in Management 1% Increase from EOY FY21 ● 1% Decrease in Underrepresented in Management. 
Percentage Increase of Women in Professional Roles 1% Increase from EOY FY21 ● 3% Increase in Women in Professional Roles As we continue to focus on internal mobility and promoting from within, our goal is to develop and provide opportunities for our manufacturing employees to transition into non-manufacturing roles.
Percentage Increase of Underrepresented in Professional Roles 2% Increase from EOY FY21 ◐ 0% Increase in Underrepresented in Professional Roles. 
Percentage of Women in Development Programs 50% Women ● 50.48% Women Development Programs refer to our Leadership Development Program (LDP), Technician Certification Program (TCP), and Education Sponsorship program. Percentage of Underrepresented in Development Programs 50% Underrepresented ● 51.43% Underrepresented [1] EOY end of year ● DEI Scorecard goal met ◐ DEI Scorecard goal partially met


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 47. 
Countries Represented by Employees 0 20 40 60 80 2019 72 2020 77 2021 71. 
Diversity Category Board of Directors. 
Gender. 
Female 22.2%
Male 77.8%
Age <30 0% 30-50 11.1% >50 88.9%
Ethnicity. 
American Indian or Alaska Native (Not Hispanic or Latino) 0%
Asian (Not Hispanic or Latino) 11.1%
Black or African American (Not Hispanic or Latino) 11.1%
Hispanic or Latino (United States of America) 0%
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander (Not Hispanic or Latino) 0%
Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 11.1%
White (Not Hispanic or Latino) 66.7% 2021 DEI Data - Board of Directors. 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion: 2021 DEI Data


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 48. 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion: Welcome All. 
Wolfspeed is committed to cultivating an environment in which we actively seek to reduce any opportunity gap based on any protected category and have implemented programs and initiatives geared toward recruiting the most talented, ambitious, and capable people to join our team.
JOB DESCRIPTIONS AND ROLES: A REBOOT. 
UNITING FOR KNOWLEDGE AND PERSPECTIVE. 
MORE JOY, LESS STRESS. 
FINDING THE NEXT WAVEOF LEADERS. 
REWARDING HARD WORK IS SORT OF OUR THING. 
TEST DRIVING A VEHICLE FOR GROWTH. 
Intellectual growth tends to make titles fleeting and a job description merely a convenient label. As a company we believe there is no shortage of good ideas, and our search for solutions gains energy and insight through an open interchange of ideas and solutions.
Diversity Alliances with civic and business organizations help underrepresented communities grow and succeed. The NC Chamber of Commerce, RTI and the cities of Raleigh and Durham support these Alliances with performance benchmarking and networking opportunities.
Being a parent is one of life’s joys and it makes for a more well-rounded employee for those who choose this path. Our Women’s Initiative Employee Resource Group created a Parenting Network that has allowed employees to share resources, tips and advice with other employees.
Corporations have a social responsibility to help ensure that color, culture, ethnicity, or economic status do not limit opportunities to a fulfilling career. We recruit from – and provide endowments, scholarships, and internships to - HBCUs, Hispanic Serving Institutions, and other diverse engineering organizations.
Graduate hires have gained skills and abilities through their own initiative which helps our company grow. A Student Loan Repayment Benefit is available to help underresourced, newly graduated hires focus their talents on building a career with our company by lessening their loan burden.
Internships further our inclusion, diversity, and business goals with the support of an intern-specific ERG (Employee Resource Group).


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 49. 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion: Nurture All. 
By proactively providing learning opportunities and other avenues to advancement, we seek to enhance the growth, development, and financial well-being of all team members. We’ve launched a multi-step initiative, MPower, to develop mentors, foster the establishment of mentor-mentee relationships, and evaluate and document progress. Existing and emerging employee resource groups (ERGs) are a significant resource in guiding these efforts.
BUILDING LEADERS. 
COUNTING STARS. 
A MENTOR IS BOTH TEACHER AND PUPIL. 
EDUCATION SPONSORSHIP. 
WHEN THEY GROW, WE GROW. 
We seek to develop leaders with a diversity of backgrounds and life experiences to harness the ambition and aptitude often overlooked in underrepresented communities. MPower structures engagement for all team members, documents growth, and accelerates career progress and advancement.
Talent reviews assess team members across the organization, identify high- potential employees and rising talent, and identify opportunities for advancement. While we actively recruit new hires, we’re intent on retention, development, and advancement of the talent we already have.
Both mentor and mentee gain meaningful insights that go beyond academic expertise to create sociological awareness, cultural understanding and a broader worldview, which adds to the intellectual depth of the organization and spurs innovation. And that’s the point.
Our Education Sponsorship Program helps team members pursue an Associate’s or Bachelor’s degree. We partner with seven North Carolina community colleges and two universities and pay for all fees and tuition for certain degreed programs to minimize any out- of-pocket costs.
MPower. It’s a movement, a goal and a promise to confirm the certainty that increasingly capable employees create an increasingly capable organization. MPower helps foster achievement and advancement, especially in STEM fields. Our education and technical certification sponsorships for 2022 aim to reduce the opportunity gap for women and other underrepresented groups, amplify their voices and harness their talents.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 50. 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion: Nurture All (continued)
We have initiatives in place to reduce our global employee turnover rates, which are monitored and reviewed quarterly. Our goal is to ensure employees have access to development and career growth without having to leave Wolfspeed. Some of our employee retention initiatives include: • Developing a culture of promoting employees from within. To provide upward mobility within Wolfspeed, our goal is to promote qualified employees to more experienced positions. To date, we have had 116 employees complete our Technician Certification Program, which provides training to current entry-level operators to give them the tools to become eligible for higher-level technician roles.
• Offering workshops and guidance to employees on how to enhance their resumes to seek other jobs within Wolfspeed. During these workshops, employees receive one-on-one guidance from a recruiter or talent development expert.
• Targeting the recruitment of college graduates for entry-level positions. Our Internship Program hosted more than 115 students in the summer of 2021. For those interns who were graduating seniors last summer (graduating before May 2022), 72% accepted a full-time, entry-level position or a position in our Wolfspeed Rotational Program.
• Developing a Career Pathing program. The program communicates the minimum qualifications required for each position level and how employees can grow in their careers.
• Considering all internal applicants who meet the minimum requirements of a role.
• Hosting internal job events to connect employees with active hiring managers.
• Offering a variety of in-person and virtual professional development opportunities in various learning formats like self-paced virtual courses, classroom-based workshops, virtual live webinars, assessment tools, and one-on-one career coaching.
• Developing an innovative approach to mentoring (our MPower program) that creates diverse opportunities for employees to be mentored in large group, small group, and one-on-one settings.
2021 New Employee Hires1. 
Diversity Category New Hire Rate. 
Region. 
North America 1,614. 
Gender. 
Female 544. 
Male 1,070. 
Age <30 632 30-50 731 50< 251. 
Our Remuneration Practices. 
Our remuneration decisions are based on relevant business factors, including but not limited to the job requirements and responsibilities for the job in which an employee is performing, location of where the work is being performed, and job performance. We comply with all federal, state and local laws and regulations, and prohibit remuneration discrimination based on many factors, including but not limited to race, age, religion, and gender. We annually engage an external consultant to perform a race and gender pay equity assessment to validate our processes for making non-discriminatory remuneration decisions. Results of the assessment and any actions taken as a result are reviewed and approved by top management.
[1] Data presented here is for our significant locations of operations,and represents approximately 91.1% of our total number of employees in calendar year 2021.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 51. 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion: Celebrate All. 
Thanks to the hard work and dedication of the 4,500+ people who have helped build a competitive, sustainable enterprise, we are able to fulfill our obligation to be a visible, active community-corporate partner. As we continue to strengthen relationships with community organizations, special attention will be paid to communities that are struggling economically, those with marginalized populations, and where students of color can be mentored and provided resources and opportunities.
LEARNING TOGETHER, GROWING TOGETHER. 
A number of Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) support our inclusion and diversity goals and business objectives. These ERGs are collaboration and advocacy vehicles which benefit and advance their group members in addressing both internal and external strategies.
The AAPI Employee Resource Group aims to connect Wolfspeed employees with a shared passion for Asian and Pacific Islander interests through networking, professional development, cultural celebration, and community engagement.
The mission of the Black | Hispanic | Latinx (BHL) ERG is to openly embrace Black, Hispanic, and Latinx employees by creating an inclusive environment that celebrates cultural diversity and, most importantly, authenticity. BHL will create an intentional space and opportunity for Black, Hispanic, and Latinx employees to directly impact Wolfspeed’s continuous mission to be an equitable and inclusive organization.
The Mental Health Allies’ mission is to create a safe environment to support employees who live with mental, emotional, and/or cognitive health conditions, illnesses, or disabilities, including their own or a family member, as we build our careers at Wolfspeed.
The PRIDE group provides support, awareness, and resources for all lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer employees and their allies. PRIDE aims to help promote a safe and inclusive environment for all employees to be their authentic selves.
The Veterans Pact’s mission is to focus on enhancing and supporting the veteran employee experience and increasing development opportunities for veterans while leveraging the diverse capabilities and qualities that veterans bring to strengthen our organization. The Veterans Pact aims to make Wolfspeed the employer of choice for veterans, while tapping into the unique skill sets of leadership and camaraderie that veterans bring to an organization to build next level leaders and innovation in our organization.
The Women’s Initiative was created in recognition of the value women bring to Wolfspeed. Our goals are to attract and retain top talent, including women, and to cultivate and celebrate the rich diversity of thought, perspectives, and life experiences so critical to Wolfspeed’s success. Through programs and events sponsored by the Women’s Initiative, we get to know each other better across organizations and functions and promote balance and effectiveness in our professional and personal lives, as well as in service to our communities.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 52. 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion: Celebrate All (continued)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion along with our Employee Resources Groups (ERGs) are dedicated to expanding our celebrations to celebrate all employees, as well as their unique backgrounds and experiences. We invite all employees to participate in these events. Here’s how Wolfspeed employees celebrated in 2021:
Celebrated Black History Month by providing educational content to employees that highlighted contributions African Americans have made and continue to make to our society and STEM.
FEBRUARY. 
Celebrated Earth Day with an Earth Day Family Coloring Contest for employees and their families hosted by our CEO.
APRIL. 
Celebrated National Hispanic Heritage Month by providing educational content to employees that highlighted some of the contributions made by Hispanic and Latino Americans to art and culture across the US.
SEPTEMBER. 
Celebrated Juneteenth at all United States locations by providing education on the history of Juneteenth. Additionally, we celebrated the holiday with food, fellowship, and fun.
We also celebrated PRIDE Month at all United States locations by providing education about the LGBTQ+ civil rights movement. Our employees also shared their stories of coming out or why they are an ally to the community.
JUNE. 
Celebrated National Coming Out Day with a panel discussion and Q&A around the topic of “Being Out at Work,” hosted by our PRIDE ERG.
OCTOBER. 
We hosted our third Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) Conference, a three-day virtual event open to all Wolfspeed employees globally. The conference explored workplace-related topics on cultivating and celebrating the rich diversity of thought, perspectives, and life experiences so critical to our success, including what it means to be intentional about diversifying through inclusion. The conference highlighted DEI experts, who spoke on crucial topics such as allyship and having an inclusive mindset.
NOVEMBER. 
In 2021, our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) came together to host a Wolfspeed’s Got Talent Show. This fun event highlighted the talent and diversity throughout our organization while celebrating all the amazing work of our ERGs throughout the calendar year.
DECEMBER


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 53. 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion: Celebrate All (continued)
WHY I AM AN ALLY. 
The Faces of Wolfspeed Series was created to allow our employees to share their stories across the organization as we continue to highlight intersectionality at work. For PRIDE month, we launched the “Why I’m an Ally” campaign that highlights employees who are allies to the LGBTQ+ community and the reasons behind their allyship. Here are a few statements from our employees:
I choose to be an ally because I want the world to be a better place for my queer kids.
I choose to be an ally because when we all support each other, the world is a better place.
I choose to be an ally because my son is gay and I love him. Everyone deserves love and acceptance, regardless of their sexual or gender identity.
I choose to be an ally because I want to live in a world and work at a company where people can be accepted, supported, and valued for their genuine selves.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 54. 
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT. 
Employee feedback continues to drive and help shape our evolving culture and has resulted in tangible change within the Company, reflected in items such as updated time off and attendance policies, the creation of new training opportunities, and many other initiatives.
In 2017, we held our first employee engagement initiative consisting of one-on-one email communication with our CEO. In 2018, we completed our first formal enterprise employee engagement survey. In 2021, we implemented a new enterprise employee engagement survey to give employees the opportunity to provide anonymous feedback on how we were doing in the areas of global leadership, culture, and employee personal development.
As a result of the employee feedback received from the 2021 employee engagement survey, we implemented training programs and created resources for employees focused on growing and developing their careers at Wolfspeed, increasing manager effectiveness, and more.
At 82%, the overall engagement score of the 2021 survey is very encouraging, and we will continue to respond to employee feedback to ensure we continue doing the work that is needed to see this number improve year after year.
Our intranet, launched in 2019, continues to be an important resource available for employees; providing a searchable, easy-to-understand window into the news, applications, tools, and resources they need to more efficiently do their job and collaborate with their teams. The intranet is updated each week with informative stories and articles focusing on our people, our business activities and products, cyber security tips, instructions on how to sign up for training opportunities, and much more. As the result of a joint Human Resources and IT pilot project, Operations team members now have easier access to the intranet and other useful Wolfspeed resources through shared computers located on the manufacturing floor throughout our Durham and RTP, NC; Marcy, NY, and Morgan Hill, CA locations.
Amid COVID-19 restrictions in 2020, to ensure our employees continued to stay engaged, our CEO replaced the quarterly, in-person Town Halls with quarterly video updates highlighting our performance, strategy, and direction. In addition to the quarterly results video updates, our CEO also launched regular, bi-weekly video updates which included guest contributors discussing our business units, product launches, safety protocols, Employee Resource Group (ERG) activities, and other Wolfspeed-related topics to both inform and educate employees. These videos are posted on our intranet and are available to all Wolfspeed employees.
In addition to our regular CEO video updates, the senior leaders also host their own virtual quarterly business unit Town Halls.
Finally, Wolfspeed employees continue to make impactful contributions to our customers and our company. To better recognize these contributions, we launched Values in Action in 2021. This new employee recognition and years of service program is intended to reward and honor employees for going above and beyond and delivering exceptional results aligned with our Values and our culture. All Wolfspeed employees have the opportunity to formally recognize their peers as well as be acknowledged for service anniversaries through the centralized platform. Through Values in Action, employees can simply thank colleagues for a job well done or attach value to the recognition by issuing points. Points have a monetary value and can be used on the Values in Action platform’s online store to purchase products, gift cards, or even donate to charities; allowing employees to cash in their points for something that is meaningful to them.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 55. 
BENEFITS. 
Wolfspeed offers a benefits package designed to promote the physical and emotional well-being and financial health of our employees. Unless otherwise noted, the benefits detailed below are offered to all Wolfspeed United States employees. Wolfspeed employees working outside of the United States are eligible for country-specific benefits, which include supplemental programs in addition to statutory benefits.
Performance- Based Compensation. 
Our people are our most valued asset, and competitive compensation is just the first step in demonstrating our commitment to our employees.
Annual Bonus. 
We continually reward our passionate efforts to meet annual business objectives. Employees are eligible for an annual cash bonus based on the company’s achievement of financial and qualitative objectives.
401(k) Match. 
Our financial planning programs help our employees feel confident about their retirement. We offer matching contributions to our 401(k) savings plan.
Referral Bonus. 
We offer employee referral bonuses to employees who find talent to help us grow our team.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan. 
Employees have the option to purchase shares of Wolfspeed stock at a discounted rate.
On-site Café (Durham)
Our award-winning café serves breakfast and lunch. Weekly menus include specialty dishes, made-to-order pizzas and sandwiches, sushi, fountain and espresso drinks, and much more.
On-site Fitness Center (Durham)
Our fitness center and weight room facilities are open to our employees’ dependents and those who have retired from the company. In addition, we offer a virtual fitness program to all employees globally.
Award-Winning Wellness Program. 
Our employees can join interactive workshops and work one-on-one with wellness coaches to design personalized fitness goals that match their lifestyle.
On-site Physical Therapist (Durham)
Our on-site physical therapist provides upper and lower extremity orthopedic services.
Ergonomic Evaluations. 
Employees receive personalized recommendations, such as custom workstation arrangements and standing desks, from our on-staff specialist.
Health Benefits. 
We offer flexible heath and insurance programs to suit our employees and their dependents’ needs, including Dental and Vision coverage, and options for Health Savings Accounts and Flexible Spending Accounts.
Life Insurance. 
We offer a variety of life insurance options for our employees and their dependents.
Employee Assistance Programs. 
We fund programs that provide personal assistance through access to resources, including confidential counseling, at no cost to our employees.
HEALTH AND WELLNESS. 
COMPENSATION 2021 WELCOA Well Workplace Award. 
We have been honored as one of 18 companies and organizations to receive a 2021 Well Workplace Award (Bronze)
DEI-Related Activities. 
In addition to financial performance, progress toward DEI-related activities are part of our employees’ annual bonus structure


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 56. 
TIME OFF. 
Paid Holidays. 
We love to innovate, but we also know it’s important to take breaks to recharge and reset.
Leave of Absence & Disability Coverage. 
Our policies cover unexpected time away for short-and long-term disability needs.
Paid Vacation. 
Our employees can accrue paid time off (PTO) throughout the year and use it when they’re ready.
EMPLOYEE GROWTH. 
Training & Development. 
We offer in-person and virtual development opportunities for personal and professional growth.
Internal Promotion. 
Employees can grow their careers here by pursuing opportunities both inside and outside their current department or team.
Educational Assistance. 
Our employees can take advantage of three different educational assistance programs to fund job- and company- related courses and degrees.
EV Charging Stations. 
Thanks to our Silicon Carbide components, EV usage is accelerating worldwide. Take advantage of electric vehicle charging stations at our Durham, NC and Marcy, NY locations.
Employee Resource Groups. 
Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) help our employees support our inclusion and diversity goals.
Paid Parental Leave. 
We know our employees need time off to bond with a new child. If they have a new birth, adoption, or foster placement, we offer six weeks of paid parental leave for our employees.
2021 Parental Leave1. 
Diversity Category. 
Employees Eligible for Parental Leave. 
Employees Who Took Parental Leave. 
Employees Who Returned to Work After Parental Leave. 
Employees Who Were Still Employed 12 Months After Parental Leave. 
Return to Work Rate for Employees Who Took Parental Leave. 
Retention Rate for Employees Who Took Parental Leave. 
Female 1,321 18 16 9 88.9% 61.1%
Male 3,085 83 71 58 86.7% 83.1%
Total 4,406 101 87 67 87.1% 79.2%
Adoption Assistance. 
We offer adoption assistance that helps cover adoption-related expenses such as agency and placement fees, home study fees, and other applicable costs.
Family Care. 
Employees are eligible to set aside pre-tax money for child and elder care support through our family care program.
FAMILY BENEFITS [1] Data presented here is based on full and part-time United States employees and represents approximately 95% of global Wolfspeed employees, excludes employees with no gender identified


TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT. 
Wolfspeed is committed to investing in the growth and development of its most important resource – its people. The company provides a wide variety of opportunities for employees to develop and grow their careers at Wolfspeed. The company approaches career development with a focus on increasing employees’ career potential based on learning, insights, and action. In terms of learning, Wolfspeed has four key pillars: learning through content, learning by doing, learning through feedback and assessments, and learning through coaching and mentoring. From this multi-dimensional approach to learning, employees discover valuable insights about their potential interests and additional opportunities within the company. Insights translate into actions that result in innovative approaches to existing work and potential new career paths within one’s current organization, the broader organization or, if it is in the best interest of the individual employee, external to the company.
Wolfspeed offers employees a wide-range of options ranging from courses and workshops that are topic- or function-based to individual, self-paced learning on topics of interest to employees. Additionally, Wolfspeed has extensive technical, environmental health and safety, compliance, technology, and quality trainings available to employees to ensure every employee is wellequipped to perform their job safely and effectively.
Technician Certification Program. 
We developed two new training programs that were officially launched in 2020: The Technician Certification Program and the Education Sponsorship Program. The Technician Certification Program and the Education Sponsorship Program were created to support business needs and employee career growth.
The Process and Equipment Technician Certification Program combines science theory and skills with hands-on activities. Successful completion of the program will equip participants to meet the requirements needed to be considered for entry-level technician roles.
116 EMPLOYEES completed our Technician Certification Program. 
The Education Sponsorship Program is an education development program designed to encourage graduates of the Technician Certification Program to pursue their Associate’s or Bachelor’s degree in engineering degrees. This offering is separate from our employee tuition reimbursement program and we have partnered with local colleges and universities to cover the cost of tuition and books for employees. Upon the opening of the Marcy, NY Fab, we expanded this program into the state of New York.
• What role do you want? • What are the education requirements for that role? • Explore areas of study • Choose your program (Associate, Bachelors) • Speak with a college admissions advisor • Take advantage of our company sponsored programs • Earn degree while continuing to work • Network internally with people who are currently in the desired role • Talk with your supervisor about workplace flexibility • Find roles that you are now qualified for and apply. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 57. 
REACHING YOUR CAREER GOALS IS A JOURNEY. WE’LL HELP YOU GET THERE.
SELF DISCOVERY. 
FIND YOUR PATH. 
COMPLETE DEGREE. 
APPLY & INTERVIEW


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 58. 
Educational Assistance Programs. 
Wolfspeed offers a number of education-related benefits, which are currently available to the United States employees. Wolfspeed offers Tuition Reimbursement (Wolfspeed reimburses employees for completed applicable college course work) and STEM Education Sponsorship (NC employees attend courses that are selected and paid for by Wolfspeed) as a benefit. Additionally, Wolfspeed offers a student loan debt repayment program for eligible early career employees in the United States.
Technician Certification Program1. 
The Process and Equipment Technician Certification Program combines science theory and skills with hands-on activities. Successful completion of the program will equip participants to meet the requirements needed to be considered for an entry-level technician role.
Education Sponsorship Program2. 
Education development program designed to encourage graduates of the Technician Certification Program to pursue their Associate’s or Bachelor’s degree. This offering is separate from our employee tuition reimbursement program, and we have partnered with local colleges and universities to cover the cost of tuition and books for employees.
JMP Training Training on statistical analysis software to help with mission-critical calculations and analytics.
8D Training. 
The 8D (Eight Disciplines) Problem Solving Process is a team-oriented and structured problem-solving methodology that is mainly used to identify, correct, and eliminate recurring problems. The 8D Problem Solving Process focuses on the origin of the problem by determining root causes and establishes corrective and preventive actions.
Core Tool Training Training on developing employees’ skills in quality by learning quality standards. Employees also learn new tools and how to utilize the tools they currently have to quickly and more efficiently solve problems.
On-The-Job Training (OJT) Program designed to help new operators develop the skills needed to perform their job functions while on-the-job. The program allows operators to work alongside an experienced operator/trainer.
Technical Skills Development. 
Wolfspeed Training Offerings [1] Opportunity is offered at Durham, United States site, in partnership with Durham Technical Community College [2]Opportunity is offered at all Wolfspeed United States sites.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 59 [2]Opportunity is offered at all Wolfspeed United States sites.
Resources for Your Development Site. 
Intranet site that allows employees globally to explore a wide variety of opportunities to help them develop and grow their careers at Wolfspeed. On the site, employees can sign up for classes, access information about career pathing, register for self-paced learning, learn more about Wolfspeed’s specialized development programs, and much more.
New Leader Program - Lead the Way Training program designed for new managers of employees that is segmented into three separate classes. This program helps new leaders learn about the tactical aspects of leading people.
Self-Paced Learning Wolfspeed partners with an external vendor to provide access to thousands of self-paced learning courses on professional development, technical development, and personal development topics.
Mentoring Program (MPower)
The MPower mentoring program is Wolfspeed’s approach to ensuring our employees learn from others effectively. We have three focus areas: Leader Connect (learning from an individual or panel in a “one-to- many” webinar setting), Group Connect (learning from a subject matter expert in a small group environment) and You Connect (two people learning directly from each other).
Career Coaching. 
Career Coaching is a development tool that helps employees define and achieve their professional goals. Employees partner with a Career Coach who will help them discover their strengths, explore their career options, and create an action plan for success. A session may cover typical job openings, what managers look for, and/or discuss gap areas in an employee’s knowledge or skills and ways in which to improve them.
English as a Second Language (ESL) Training. 
Virtual, self-paced training program focused on helping speakers of non-English languages to better their communications skills by practicing the English language.
Wellness Workshops2. 
Program designed to focus on all aspects of our employees’ well-being. Topics include Injury Prevention and Exercise, Stress Management, Understanding Diversity, and much more. We host Wellness Workshops every month.
Personal Finance Workshops2 Program designed to focus on employees’ financial well-being. Topics include Financial Health, Budgeting and Saving, Preparing for Retirement, and much more. We host Financial Workshops every month.
Personal and Professional Development


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 60. 
The safety, health, and overall well-being of our employees and contractors is integrated into the way we do business.
Health and Safety Philosophy. 
WOLFSPEED AIMS TO PROVIDE A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK ENVIRONMENT BY: • Fixing accountability for health and safety performance with line management, just as it is for productivity, quality, and other business performance metrics • Hiring, developing, and retaining a team of health and safety professionals dedicated to assisting line management fulfill its mission of every employee going home as well as or better than how they arrived • Recognizing, identifying, and evaluating operations or processes which could negatively affect employee and contractor health • Evaluating health and safety incidents to prevent recurrence • Providing contractors information regarding EHS risks and relevant precautions and periodically reviewing contractor ratings to evaluate if they continue to meet safe and adequate performance standards • Setting acceptable levels of risk based on government regulation or industry best practices • Designing control measures for those operations or processes which are found to be potentially harmful • Providing training to affected individuals • Monitoring the effectiveness of our Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) programs and services to ensure the highest level of quality and support is being achieved. 
HEALTH AND SAFETY — OUR EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS. 
Our products are innovatively designed and undergo various testing to ensure that the health and safety of our customers is not negatively impacted. Our Occupational Health and Safety and wellness programs ensure the health and safety of our employees and contractors.
HEALTH AND SAFETY. 
OUR GOAL. 
Establish a certified Occupational Health & Safety Management System for 100% of our manufacturing sites by 2025 2021 PROGRESS. 
Defined ISO 45001 implementation project scope. 
Selected audit management and regulatory software solution. 
Onboarded an auditing firm to evaluate and certify our established Occupational Health & Safety management system. 
OUR AMBITION. 
Providing a safe and healthful work environment is paramount to our success and protects our most valuable resource, our employees.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 61. 
Occupational Health and Safety Programs The following OHS programs have been implemented within Wolfspeed:
EHS and Code of Conduct Policies. 
Our Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Policy outlines our approach to continuous improvement.
Our Code of Conduct describes standards of conduct for our employees and directors in performing their duties and it applies throughout Wolfspeed and all its subsidiaries. In addition to including specific core principles relating to Occupational Health and Safety, it also provides scenario-based learning examples in the areas of employee health and regulatory compliance.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires that all suppliers comply with applicable health and safety laws and regulations to create safe working conditions and a healthy work environment for all workers.
WOLFSPEED PROGRAM OR PROCEDURE ELEMENTS OF PROTECTION FOR WORKERS EXPOSED TO HAZARDS. 
Safe Work Practices1 Engineering Controls2 Personal Protective Equipment3. 
Hazardous Substance Information4. 
Measurement and Medical Checks5. 
Management Systems. 
Management of Change Program • • • •
Undesired Condition Identification and Screening •
Occupational Health. 
Bloodborne Pathogens • • • • •
Industrial Hygiene • • • • •
Hearing Conservation • • • • •
Ionizing Radiation Safety • • • • •
Laser Safety • • • • •
Ergonomics • • • • •
General Safety. 
General Safety Requirements • • •
Job Safety Analyses • • • • •
Personal Protective Equipment • • • •
Permit-Required Confined Space • • • • •
Hot Work • • • •
Fire Extinguisher • •
Electrical Safety • • • •
Lock Out/Tag Out • • •
Machine Guarding • • •
Shop Tool Safety • • • •
Fall Protection • • •
Ladder Safety •
Cranes, Hoists, and Slings • • •
Walking Working Surfaces • •
Powered Industrial Vehicles • •
Process Safety Management. 
Process Hazard Analysis • • • • •
PSSR Pre Start-Up Safety Review • • • • •
Line Breaking • • • • •


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 62 • Indicates that this is an element of protection for workers exposed to hazards, and depending on the program: [1] Examples of safe work practices at Wolfspeed include providing adequate training, maintaining good housekeeping in work areas, lifting no more than specific weight for repetitive and one time lifting, and acceptable working temperatures and humidity.
[2] Examples of engineering controls at Wolfspeed include proper ventilation, work performed inside enclosed equipment, substitution to less hazardous chemicals, and automation of equipment.
[3] Examples of personal protective equipment at Wolfspeed include the requirement to wear safety glasses in all manufacturing areas; using gloves, face shields and chemical aprons when working with hazardous chemicals; and using hearing protection when working in areas above the regulatory threshold for noise.
[4] Examples of information on hazardous substances at Wolfspeed include providing information to employees about safe handling and storage of hazardous substances, providing information to employees and contractors about recognizing hazardous conditions, and ensuring proper signage and labeling of hazardous areas, piping, and equipment. [5] Examples of measurement and medical checks at Wolfspeed include testing of ventilated areas to ensure proper ventilation, performing exposure assessments to determine ambient concentrations and exposure potentials, and requiring motor vehicle records for drivers and medical surveillance for affected employees per regulatory requirements.
Occupational Health and Safety Programs (continued)
WOLFSPEED PROGRAM OR PROCEDURE ELEMENTS OF PROTECTION FOR WORKERS EXPOSED TO HAZARDS. 
Safe Work Practices1 Engineering Controls2 Personal Protective Equipment3. 
Hazardous Substance Information4. 
Measurement and Medical Checks5. 
Incident Management. 
Eyewash and Safety Shower •
Preparing for and Responding to Emergencies •
Emergency Action Plans • •
Transportation. 
Motor Vehicle Safety • • •
Hazardous Materials Transport • • •
Sustainable Business Practices. 
Contractor Safety • • •
Chemical Management. 
Hazard Communication • • • • •
Chemical Hygiene Plan • • •
Qualitative Exposure Assessment • • • • •
Respiratory Protection • • •
Compressed Gas Cylinders • • • •


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 63. 
Occupational Health and Safety Programs (continued)
The Health and Safety portion of the Environment, Health and Safety Management System (EHSMS) is based on the US ANSI/ AIHA/ASSE Z10-2012 Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems and the ISO 45001:2018 standards. All employees and contractors are covered under our EHSMS. Our health and safety management system is internally audited and on-track to being externally registered. Our raw material suppliers are not yet screened using EHSMS criteria. Our US-based contractors performing potentially hazardous work at any Wolfspeed site are screened using health and safety criteria.
Each internal written OHS program describes the hierarchy of controls when identifying hazards and assessing risks. Each program having a regulatory driver is tracked within our EHSMS and thoroughly reviewed at an appropriate frequency. These reviews aim to ensure the program has considered any new regulations or best practices, is being implemented effectively within the affected business unit, is being supported financially by line management, and is producing desired results overall. We ensure the quality of the review processes through hiring competent, trained EHS professionals and monitor and coach them to provide feedback, training, and ongoing professional development toward their jobs. Each EHS professional is assigned periodic EHS program reviews. Any findings are recorded and tracked to completion.
Capital investments are subject to our management of change program which aims to minimize potential adverse impacts on employees, consumers, property, or the environment arising from process, operational, or facilities change. The triggers or thresholds for EHS involvement along with examples are described in our internal management of change program.
Employee Involvement in OHS. 
Employee involvement in OHS takes many forms including EHS Teams, EHS point-of-contact interaction in the production areas, Lean Kaizen events, and Management of Change processes. Our EHS training is connected to a learning management system and the on-boarding process for a new or transferred employee. Training is developed and tracked for all regulatory mandated programs and effectiveness is measured by observations, incident evaluations, team walk-throughs, and audits or inspections.
We continue to emphasize our Safety Fundamentals program rolled out in 2020, which describes all employees’ responsibilities for ensuring health and safety throughout our organization. The purpose of the Safety Fundamentals program is to drive employee engagement through clearly defined key safety actions and expected behaviors. Clearly communicating safety expectations is fundamental to supporting our desired safety culture. The four main components of the Safety Fundamentals program include Communicate, Demonstrate, Challenge and Motivate.
Employee Health and Well-Being. 
Wolfspeed supports the well-being of our employees through programs that support a healthy lifestyle. We are committed to offering benefits to employees and their families to assist in improving health and lifestyle choices. Programs throughout our operations are tailored to the needs of the employees in the region and include many health-related benefits. In Durham, NC, where there is less automation, we re-introduced services for our workers provided by an on-site licensed physical therapist. In our international locations, we adhere to regulatory benefits and health and wellness requirements. In our United States locations, for those enrolled in our medical benefits program, we offer programs such as our Bright Choices wellness program, which is designed to encourage employees and their families to adopt healthy lifestyle habits. This program provides options for employees to receive on-line classes, health coaches, and incentives for preventive health care. Employee benefits include medical and dental insurance, health and retirement savings accounts, childcare assistance, fitness centers at some locations, paid time off, and family leave programs. Employee assistance programs provide professional counseling to help resolve personal issues. Refer to the Benefits section of this report to learn more.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 64. 
Incident Management. 
Incident Management applies to all employees (temporary, permanent, full-time and part-time) who are involved in an incident or supervise an affected individual. If an incident involves a contract worker, contractors must refer to the Wolfspeed Contractor EHS & Security Handbook, applicable to their service location, for guidance on incident reporting and notifications.
Our policies require employees to immediately report incidents or when they become aware of symptoms, or any indication of a work- related complaint. Any concerns regarding hazards in the workplace can be reported to the employees’ supervisor, any EHS staff, by entering via several of our electronic reporting tools (e.g., Intelex nonconformance, or anonymously via the near miss report), or through our corporate whistleblower reporting platform.
Employees are protected from reprisal when reporting incidents. Our policies inform employees that they have the right to report work-related injuries and illnesses and that Wolfspeed is prohibited from discharging or in any manner discriminating against them for reporting work-related injuries or illnesses. Supervisors are also expected to create a work environment that encourages the reporting of incidents and near misses. Supervisors are required to immediately report emergencies to Wolfspeed’s Emergency Response Team, depending on the situation, and electronically to EHS within 24 hours so incident details can be properly evaluated and corrective actions assigned where appropriate.
Wolfspeed follows confidentiality regulations in the country of operation (e.g., Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) laws are followed at our United States locations). Our information management system has audit trail capability and control on who can view employee records. Anyone who can view employee records is granted access on a need-to-know basis. If the incident is industrial hygiene-related, our certified industrial hygienists are bound to ethical codes of conduct through their certifications and know to maintain employee confidentiality. Certification maintenance requires ongoing ethics training. Select employees in the United States take HIPAA - Privacy Rules for Business Associates training.
Once initial information about the incident is gathered and documented, EHS assesses the incident severity. The incident severity assignment will determine the type of cause evaluation required and the time required to complete it. Evaluations are then performed, usually by the supervisor of the affected employee, to develop corrective actions to prevent recurrence of the incident and help improve our Environment, Health & Safety Management System. The incident evaluation process includes: • Developing and reviewing a problem statement with the incident evaluation team; • Collecting all potentially relevant data (e.g., interviewing employees involved, performing walkthroughs of the affected area, reviewing security videos recorded during the event); • Performing a cause analysis to identify the primary and contributing causes using the 5-Why method; and • Developing and assigning corrective actions using the S.M.A.R.T. (Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic, Timely) criteria method.
All evaluations and corrective actions are reviewed and approved by EHS staff prior to finalizing an incident review. After an incident, operations are then monitored using our incident management system.
Our Wider Impact on Worker Health and Safety. 
In many cases where Wolfspeed has no control over both the work and workplace, we still make efforts, including exercising any leverage we have, to prevent and mitigate negative occupational health and safety impacts that are directly linked to our operations, products, or services via business relationships. We drive improved supplier occupational health and safety performance via our existing trades contractor management process, which insists that our trades perform at acceptable levels or risk losing our business. As a result, our trades contractors typically make necessary improvements. This program is implemented at all United States sites.
The implementation of a new Enterprise Resource Planning system is underway and is expected to be fully released in 2023. Supplier Lifecycle and Performance includes improvements to vetting all our suppliers using OH&S criteria. We plan to measure the impact of these initiatives and provide our results in future reports.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 65. 
Recordable Employee Work-Related Injury-Illness Rates1,2,3,4,5 35 28 30 0 4 0 12 4
10 0 1 0 6 3 2 0 1 0 0
5 10 15 20 25 30 35 2019 2020 2021. 
Employee Injuries Contract Employee Injuries. 
Employee Illnesses Contract Employee Illnesses. 
Employee High-Consequence Injuries Employee High-Consequence Illnesses 35 28 0 4 12 4
0 6
0 0
5 10 15 20 25 30 35 2019 2020. 
Employee Injuries. 
Employee Illnesses. 
Employee High-Consequence Injuries 35 28 30 0 4 0 12 4
10 0
1 0
6 3 2 0 1
0 0
5 10 15 20 25 30 35 2019 2020 2021. 
Employee Injuries Contract Employee Injuries. 
Employee Illnesses Contract Employee Illnesses. 
Employee High-Consequence Injuries Employee High-Consequence Illnesses 1.54 1.07 1.30 1.15 0.94 0.98 0.39 0.13 0.33 0.20 0.10 0.07 0.00 0.03 0.00 0.20 0.13 0.07 5.8 5.9 6.0 6.1 6.2 0.00 0.20 0.40 0.60 0.80 1.00 1.20 1.40 1.60 2019 2020 2021. 
Hours Worked (millions of hours)
Rate (based on 200,000 hours worked)
Injury-Illness Rates Injury Rates Illness Rates. 
High-Consequence Injury Rates High-Consequence Illness Rates High-Consequence Injury-Illness Rates. 
Hours Worked 1.54 1.07 1.30 1.15 0.94 0.98 0.39 0.13 0.33 0.20 0.10 0.07 0.00 0.03 0.00 0.20 0.13 0.07 5.8 5.9 6.0 6.1 6.2 0.00 0.20 0.40 0.60 0.80 1.00 1.20 1.40 1.60 2019 2020 2021. 
Hours Worked (millions of hours)
Injury-Illness Rates Injury Rates Illness Rates. 
High-Consequence Injury Rates High-Consequence Illness Rates High-Consequence Injury-Illness Rates. 
Hours Worked. 
Recordable Work-Related Injury-Illness Cases1, 2, 3, 4. 
Occupational, Health, and Safety Metrics. 
Wolfspeed tracks all work-related injuries and illnesses and works to improve the safety of our workplace through evaluation and prevention measures. We have a comprehensive program to address workplace safety issues. There have been zero work-related fatalities since our business began operations in 1987. We are not aware of any occupational exposure issues in our manufacturing processes that would increase an individual’s risk of any specific disease.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 66. 
Recordable Work-Related Injury-Illness Types1 [1]Data presented here is for our significant locations of operations and our smaller United States locations, which represents approximately 95% of our total number of 2021 employees.
[2]Recordable Work-Related Injury-Illness = Work-related injury or ill health that results in any of the following: death, days away from work, restricted work or transfer to another job, medical treatment beyond first aid, or loss of consciousness; or significant injury or ill health diagnosed by a physician or other licensed healthcare professional, even if it does not result in death, days away from work, restricted work or job transfer, medical treatment beyond first aid, or loss of consciousness.
[3]Contract Employee = Any worker who is not a Wolfspeed employee but whose manager is and whose work and workplace may or may not be controlled by Wolfspeed.
[4]High-Consequence Recordable Work-Related Injury-Illness = Work-related injury or ill health that results in an injury from which the worker cannot, does not, or is not expected to recover fully to pre-injury health status within six months.
[5]Rates are calculated using 200,000 hours worked (Rate = cases/total hours worked * 200,000) 2021 Health and Safety Data Trends 2021 Information: » Our total number of recordable injuries and illnesses and rates increased slightly in 2021 compared to 2020, after adjusting previous years’ numbers due to the LED business divestment. Injury-illness rate increases may be attributed to several factors and understanding these factors is on our agenda in 2022 and 2023. Challenges faced with employee turnover, improved reporting, and aggressive production goals are suspected as causes but not confirmed at the time of this report. Although these lagging performance indicators increased slightly, our leading indicators (on-time incident evaluation, on-time corrective action completion, and on-time employee training) are expected to drive a decrease in injury-illness rates over time.
Future Look: » We are continuously focusing on EHS performance improvement through enterprise-wide leading metrics, increased EHS presence in day-to-day operations, global EHS management system alignment, focused Management of Change, and enhanced contractor management.
» We have a new health and safety goal to implement a registered Occupational Health & Safety Management System for 100% of our manufacturing sites, which will help to further drive health and safety improvements throughout our organization.
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% 2019 2020 2021. 
Contact with objects and equipment Overexertion and bodily reaction Falls, slips, trips. 
Exposure to harmful substances or environments Transportation Incidents Violence and other injuries by persons or animals 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% 2019 2020 2021. 
Contact with objects and equipment Overexertion and bodily reaction Falls, slips, trips. 
Exposure to harmful substances or environments Transportation Incidents Violence and other injuries by persons or animals


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 67. 
EHS Organizational Structure. 
Wolfspeed has dedicated staff to implement EHS programs:
Board of Directors. 
Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
EHS Manager Durham, NC. 
EHS Staff EHS Staff. 
Senior Vice President of Global Operations Senior Vice President of Human Resources. 
Emergency Operations. 
Environmental Manager Durham, NC. 
Sr. Manager Corporate EHS Programs Durham, NC. 
EHS Manager Morgan Hill, CA. 
EHS Manager Marcy, NY. 
EHS Staff. 
Vice President of Global Facilities. 
Life Safety. 
Director of Global Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS)


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 68. 
HEALTH AND SAFETY — OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS. 
We design and test our products to ensure the health and safety of our customers and partners.
Electrical Isolation Testing. 
Electrical isolation testing is a direct current or alternating current dielectric withstand test that confirms our Power products will not transfer high or hazardous voltages, thus helping safeguard our customers from electrical insulation failures.
We also perform electrical testing for our RF products, which involves a direct current or Radio Frequency (RF) test that confirms our RF products will meet the spectral emission requirements of our customers.
Harsh Environment Testing. 
To ensure our Power modules will not fail or corrode in harsh environments we perform temperature and humidity bias (THB) testing that exposes our products to high temperature and high humidity. This testing ensures our Power modules can be operated in outdoor applications, such as renewable energy and electric vehicles.
To ensure our RF products will display adequate reliability under harsh environments, we perform stress testing under accelerated temperature, humidity, and bias conditions. This testing ensures our RF products can be operated in our customers’ applications, such as telecommunication, aerospace, and defense.
Guidance on Safe Use of RF Products. 
RF products emit high-power density of RF radiations that can present hazards to sensitive biological tissues. Each RF application can be unique, so consideration should be given to ensuring that the RF product will be manipulated in the proper environment.
HEALTH AND SAFETY


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 69. 
We believe that many societal disadvantages can be overcome with adequate resources and support so that all are free to pursue and achieve a productive, fulfilling life. We partner with municipalities, civic organizations, and advocacy groups to close the opportunity gap and provide those in need the opportunity to excel. Through corporate events, sponsorships, and employee-led initiatives, we live Our Values by doing the right thing at work as well as in the communities where we live.
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT. 
We focus our efforts on increasing awareness of the opportunities provided through STEM, while helping remove potential obstacles such as not having a safe place to sleep and enough food to eat. We also shine a light on the importance of diversity and social justice as we work to create communities and a society that support and value all people and their contributions.
The pandemic brought challenges to individuals and businesses. It also brought us the opportunity to rethink how we serve our communities and reshape our outreach to deliver what our neighbors need most. Additionally, we focused on keeping our team and their families, as well as those on the front lines of the pandemic, safe and healthy, while still keeping our traditions alive to support our employees and their families as we weathered the storm together.
COVID-19 exacerbated peoples’ most basic needs: to stay healthy, to have shelter, and to eat. We continued our support of the Food Bank of Eastern & Central North Carolina and Feeding America, Inc. to feed those in need, many of whom found themselves suddenly unemployed.
We allocated $5,000 per quarter to each of our United States locations to empower employees at each location to work together to decide on the volunteer activities and agencies they would partner with to support local hunger relief and STEM programs in their region.
We also continued to look for opportunities to serve our communities in different ways during the pandemic. The overall health, well-being and safety of our team was, and remains, a top priority, and it was important to us to be able to support those who keep our team healthy and safe as well.
While there were many unknowns during the pandemic, we were able to continue providing support to families in our communities; and were able to pivot our support as appropriate to ensure the greatest needs were met.
OUR GOAL. 
Establish STEM partnerships at 100% of our major locations by 2025. 
Expanded global partnerships with organizations focused on increasing representation of females and other underrepresented groups in STEM. 
Established early intervention K-12 programs focused on increasing representation of females and other underrepresented groups in STEM. 
Established holistic partnerships with colleges and universities that include not only scholarships but support for students’ basic needs including food, shelter, etc.
Activated teams at United States locations to take ownership of location-specific volunteer activities and community partnerships. 
OUR AMBITION. 
Close the opportunity gap by providing more opportunities for STEM education, at all levels, to people in need, particularly in underserved communities.
2021 PROGRESS


Marcy. 
Durham (HQ)
Durham (HQ)
Alpha Academy. 
Arts in Action. 
Duke University Health KN95 Mask Donation. 
Durham Bulls Pollinator Garden. 
Food Bank of Central & Eastern NC. 
Habitat for Humanity. 
National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
NC Chamber Workplace. 
Diversity & Inclusion Conference. 
Raleigh Chamber Women’s Leadership Conference. 
Shelton Leadership Center. 
Society of Women Engineers (SWE)
Urban Ministries of Durham. 
Women in Science and Technology (WIST)
Fayetteville, AK. 
Cooperative Emergency Outreach. 
Seeds that Feed. 
The Pack Shack. 
Mesa, AZ. 
Arizona Brainfood. 
Marcy, NY. 
Boilermaker Road Races. 
Empire State Development KN95 Mask Donation. 
FIRST Robotics and Rome Free Academy. 
FIRST Robotics and SUNY Poly Foundation. 
Marcy 5K Walk & Run. 
Utica Comets & “Save of the Day” Foundation, Inc.
Utica Rescue Mission. 
Morgan Hill, CA. 
Chamber of Commerce of Morgan Hill ‘Rock the Mock’ Interview. 
The Edward Boss Prado Foundation. 
National. 
Feeding America. 
STEM Goes Red | Go Red for Women. 
Fayetteville. 
Morgan Hill. 
Mesa. 
KEY. 
Community event Educational event. 
U.S. LOCATIONS. 
PARTNERING WITH OUR NEIGHBORS TO SERVE THE COMMUNITY AND CLOSE THE OPPORTUNITY GAP. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 70


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 71. 
Continuing the Tradition: STEM Day 2021. 
Since 2018, it has been a tradition for employees in North Carolina to host their children on the Durham campus to help them understand what we do and to celebrate the wonders of science, technology, engineering, and math during our annual STEM Day event. Each year, as part of STEM Day, we collaborate with our community partners to provide K-12 students and adults with an opportunity to investigate what it means to do what others say can’t be done through live demonstrations, hands-on activities, and more. And whenever possible, we extend an invitation to children from underserved communities to participate in the event as well. All STEM Day activities are coordinated and led by employees who volunteer their time before and during the events.
In 2020, as a result of the pandemic, our STEM Day event went virtual; allowing us to continue our tradition and open up participation to all of our United States-based employees and their families, as well as children from the Daniel Center for Math & Science, one of our community partners.
In 2021, STEM Day again went virtual; however, we took the event a step further by opening up participation to our global employee population, allowing employees and their families from around the world to participate from the comfort of their own home. Children from the Daniel Center for Math & Science were also invited to participate again.
The theme for STEM Day 2021 was “Going Green,” and the focus was on innovative, eco-friendly technologies that use environmental science and chemistry to reduce waste, make energy more efficient, and help preserve the environment.
A highlight of STEM Day 2021 featured a live keynote address and demonstration by Dr. Aram Amassian, Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering at North Carolina State University (NC State) and a founding member of the Carbon Electronics Cluster where he heads the Ambient Manufacturing of Electronics Laboratory. Dr. Amassian’s keynote address and demonstration were presented from his laboratory at NC State and followed by a live Question & Answer (Q&A) session with participants. Dr. Amassian presented on two separate days to ensure all Wolfspeed employees had the opportunity to participate. We partnered with NC Science Olympiad (NCSO) to have age-appropriate activity kits shipped to Wolfspeed employees and their children prior to the event. Our summer interns created instructional videos to help the children complete the kits.
To ensure that all employees across the globe had the opportunity to hear Dr. Amassian’s presentation and the Q&A session, a recording of the STEM Day event and the intern-led demonstration videos were posted on our intranet homepage for all employees to access.
With close to 400 participants from ten countries and eleven Unites States’ states in attendance, we considered our STEM Day 2021 event to be a success; it allowed us the opportunity to further build our tradition by extending the STEM Day opportunity to employees around the globe and their families, and continue to work with our community partners to share the possibilities that STEM can bring to the world.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 72


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 73. 
ENVIRONMENT 2022


PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY. 
EVS AND EV CHARGING Wolfspeed’s Silicon Carbide MOSFETs enable faster, more efficient charging and increase power density of the electric circuits while reducing range anxiety. Wolfspeed’s 1200V and 650V Silicon Carbide MOSFETs enable a reduction of EV drive train losses by up to 80%, which means increased range and performance for your EV.
5G TELECOM Wolfspeed products allow 5G to transmit more data at faster speeds and with greater precision. Gallium nitride on Silicon Carbide has demonstrated to be a better solution overall for wireless communications because of its thermal conductivity, materials matching, efficient and total lifecycle cost.
SOLAR ENERGY Solar power systems designed around Wolfspeed Silicon Carbide offer huge efficiency gains and permit smaller system size, weight, and cost, increasing solar energy adoption worldwide. Using Silicon Carbide Power components instead of silicon for solar inverters can save 10 megawatts for each gigawatt and 500 watts/sec in operation.
AEROSPACE AND DEFENSE Using Wolfspeed gallium nitride on Silicon Carbide RF solutions enables system designers to achieve maximum performance with smaller and lighter systems that consume less power.
DATA CENTERS Wolfspeed Silicon Carbide-based products enable more efficient and cooler power conversion, and have the capacity to meet new global efficiency standards in these demanding applications.
PROCESSES THAT PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT, PRODUCTS THAT IMPROVE IT. 
We strive to minimize resource use and reduce the environmental impact of our production process. We are committed to responsibly managing environmental impacts, including being in compliance with environmental legislation as a minimum, and ensuring continual improvement in our environmental performance. Our product sustainability goals are simple: enable our customers to invent power and wireless systems for a responsible, energy efficient future. We are committed to responsibly managing product stewardship aspects of our products from cradle to grave as we lead the innovation and commercialization of Silicon Carbide and gallium nitride.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 74. 
LEADING THE WAY TO A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Compared to alternatives, our products sold in 2021 will save approx: 42 mil METRIC TONS of CO2e the CO2 savings from 11,000 wind turbines running for one year* over their lifetimes, which is. 
EQUAL TO: *EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalences Calculator


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 75. 
PRODUCT END OF LIFE. 
Even though Wolfspeed’s products have a long life, all good things do come to an end of their useful life. How should our products be disposed of when removed from service?
All Wolfspeed Power and RF chips, components, and devices are electronic components and are incorporated into electronic products that should be considered for electronics recycling when feasible. Disposing of electronic waste in landfills is banned in many locations. In some areas of the world, it depends on the recycle vendors availability. End users are encouraged to check their local regulations or with local recyclers for advice on disposal of these components.
PRODUCT ECOLOGY. 
Wolfspeed maintains an active program to minimize restricted materials, such as lead and cadmium, in our products. Visit the Product Ecology section of our Sustainability page on wolfspeed.com to view our REACH and RoHS declarations.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND ISO 14001. 
Wolfspeed is committed to responsibly managing environmental impacts, including being in compliance with environmental legislation as a minimum, and ensuring continual improvement in our environmental performance.
The benefits of implementing an environmental management system include improved environmental risk management, cost savings, meeting external stakeholder expectations, ensuring compliance with environmental laws, and decreasing our environmental footprint through discovering new possibilities for energy, water, and waste usage reductions. Our certificates can be found on our ISO 14001 page on wolfspeed.com.
Durham, North Carolina • ISO 14001:2015. 
RTP, North Carolina • ISO 14001:2015. 
Morgan Hill, California • ISO 14001:2015


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 76. 
Our North Carolina manufacturing facilities are members of the North Carolina Environmental Stewardship Initiative (ESI). ESI is a voluntary program, provided by the state of North Carolina through the Department of Environmental Quality, to encourage companies to go beyond compliance to reduce impacts on the local environment. The program requires companies to have a mature environmental management system and aggressive environmental goals. ESI has three levels of participation. Our North Carolina facilities entered the program in 2018 at the first level as an Environmental Partner, with the goal of rising to the highest level as an Environmental Steward in the future. In 2019, our North Carolina facilities rose to the second level as a Rising Steward. More information about the ESI program can be found here.
NC ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP INITIATIVE. 
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, AND SAFETY POLICY (LEAD)
Wolfspeed endorses and adheres to Environment, Health and Safety (EH&S) standards for all Wolfspeed sites. It is Wolfspeed’s EH&S goal to design and develop products safely that realize energy efficiency, minimize environmental impacts, and have sustainable life cycles. In this manner, the Company is continuously improving our EH&S performance and reducing the overall impacts of our manufacturing processes. To further ensure that Wolfspeed can implement such standards, Wolfspeed is dedicated to: • Providing a safe and healthy work environment for our employees; • Complying with regulatory and other requirements; • Using natural resources, energy, and materials efficiently; • Substituting sustainable resources in place of non-renewable resources; • Reusing or recycling materials wherever technically possible and economically reasonable; • Minimizing waste and disposing of waste safely and responsibly; • Sourcing raw material responsibly; • Implementing specific measures to prevent and minimize hazards to humans; and the environment, including pollution prevention; and • Consulting with and encouraging the participation of workers and workers’ representatives, as applicable.
L. 
E
A. 
D
Leaders place continual emphasis on environment, health, and safety. 
Employees participate in developing, maintaining, and following EHS policies and procedures. 
Accept accountability for EHS performance. 
Demonstrate our commitment to legal requirements, risk management, and continual improvement. 
L.E.A.D. WITH EHS. 
At Wolfspeed we L.E.A.D. with EHS. To ensure the best for our employees, our environment, and our community, we all must L.E.A.D.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 77. 
ENERGY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS. 
Our Products. 
Our Power and Radio Frequency products are created with energy efficiency in mind. Our Power and Radio Frequency products allow other industries to develop leading energy efficient products in applications such as renewable energy, wireless communication, electric vehicles, and electric vehicle charging.
Our Manufacturing. 
We recognize the future possible environmental, social, and economic impacts associated with climate change and increasing energy demands. In addition to providing energy efficient products, we strive to reduce GHG emissions and improve energy efficiency at all Wolfspeed sites.
Energy Consumption in Gigawatt Hours 2021 Energy Purchases. 
OUR GOAL. 
Reduce scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 50% by 2030. 
Achieve net zero s cope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2050* 2021 PROGRESS. 
Increased scope 1 and 2 (market) emissions by ~35% relative to a base year. 
OUR AMBITION. 
Actively fight against climate change and reduce our and others’ carbon footprint; Stay efficient, stay productive. Be a company that makes a difference for future generations.
318.6 314.2 330.8 74.4 70.8 80.4 0.4 0.5 0.7 0
50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 2019 2020 2021. 
Electricity Natural Gas Fuel Oil, Gasoline, Propane, LPG 0.6% 0.3% 57.2% 41.9%
Direct Purchases of Renewable Energy/Carbon Free (e.g., Wind, Solar, Hydropower, and Nuclear)
Estimated Renewable Energy Purchases Based on Country-Specific or Local Utilities' Energy Grid M. 
Direct Purchases of Non-Renewable and Non-Carbon-Free Energy (e.g., Natural Gas, Diesel)
Estimated Other Low-Carbon Energy (e.g., Nuclear) Purchases Based on Country-Specific or Local Utilities' Energy Grid Mix. 
Direct Purchases of Renewable Energy/Carbon Free (e.g., Wind, Solar, Hydropower, and Nuclear)
Estimated Renewable Energy Purchases Based on Country-Specific or Local Utilities’ Energy Grid Mix. 
Direct Purchases of Non-Renewable and Non-Carbon-Free Energy (e.g., Natural Gas, Diesel)
Estimated Other Low-Carbon Energy (e.g., Nuclear) Purchases Based on Country-Specific or Local Utilities’ Energy Grid Mix * We also established a long-term goal of reducing scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with the Paris Agreement to further reduce our climate impact in support of limiting warming to 1.5°C and transitioning to a net-zero carbon economy.
MT CO2e


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 78 247.1 280.6 360.1 116.1 111.2 97.5 0
50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 2019 2020 2021. 
Scope 1 Scope 2. 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions in Thousand Metric Tons CO2 Equivalents. 
Scope 1: Our direct GHG emissions (e.g., fuel combustion, fluorinated gases used in manufacturing)
Scope 2 (location based): GHG emissions from the consumption of purchased electricity at our facilities. 
Our Carbon Footprint in Percent of Total GHG Emissions 99.1% 2018 100% 0.9% 1.8% 98.2% 1.3% 98.7%
Reducing CO2e The GHG emissions associated with using our products over their lifetimes represent roughly 99% of our total GHG footprint. Compared to traditional less efficient alternatives, our Power and Radio Frequency products sold in 2021 will save approximately 113 million MWh and 42 million metric tons CO2 equivalents over their estimated lifetimes.
2% 2019 2020. 
Our scope 3 emissions from the use of our sold products over their estimated lifetimes. 
The total of our scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 emissions from all other scope 3 categories 1 10 100 1,000 10,000 100,000 1,000,000 10,000,000 100,000,000 1,000,000,000. 
Employee Commuting. 
Disposal of Sold Products at End of Lives. 
Manufacturing Waste Generation & Transportation. 
Employee Business Travel. 
Upstream Transportation & Distribution. 
Downstream Transportation & Distribution. 
Contract Manufacturers. 
Fuel- and energy-related activities. 
Capital Goods. 
Purchased Goods & Services. 
Use of Sold Products Over Estimated Lives. 
Scope 2. 
Scope 1 metric tons CO2e 2021 2020 2019. 
Scope 3. 
Our Carbon Footprint in Metric Tons CO2 Equivalents


2021 GHG and Energy Data Trends. 
SCOPE 1 2021 Information: » Our usage of fuel and fluorinated gases in our manufacturing processes changed in 2021 compared to 2020 due to changes in output and product mix, and expansion, causing our scope 1 emissions to increase.
Future Look: » We are currently exploring GHG abatement technologies for our facilities, and in 2020 and 2021 began installing abatement devices at our Durham and RTP fabrication facilities.
» In 2019, we began planning for a project to eliminate the use of one of our greenhouse gases with a high global warming potential (GWP) in one of our manufacturing processes. This project entered the testing phase 2020-2021. Testing was successful and is planned to be funded in the near future.
» We have new GHG goals to help further reduce our climate change impacts.
SCOPE 2 2021 Information: » In 2021 we implemented new energy-efficiency projects that contributed to the GHG reduction of 3,822 metric tons CO2e (changing our wafers slicing process, lights exchange, replacement of acid exhaust fans, and consolidation of operations).
» We increased low-carbon energy consumption at our facility in Morgan Hill, CA in 2021 compared to a 2020 amount (from 2,224 MWh to 2,513 MWh). This increase caused our scope 2 market-based emissions to decrease by about 126 MT CO2e in 2021.
» We incorporated updated emission factors in 2021, leading to a reduction of 19,461 metric tons CO2e in scope 2 location-based emissions (e.g., new EPA eGRID2020 was available for use in our 2021 emissions inventory).
Future Look: » We continuously explore options for energy reduction and efficiency improvements to help offset expected increases in energy use and scope 2 GHG emissions as we expand.
» We are exploring our options for incorporating a renewable energy portfolio strategy at our main locations.
» Our new Mary, NY Fab is planned to be LEED certified with energy efficient processes built into the design of the building. Learn more in the Expanding Capacity for Silicon Carbide section of this report.
» We have new GHG goals to help track our progress to reduce our climate change impacts. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 79. 
We divested our LED business, causing our scope 1 and 2 emissions decrease by 41,621 metric tons CO2e.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 80 2021 GHG and Energy Data Trends (continued)
SCOPE 3 2021 Information: » Purchased goods and services and capital goods: Our usage of raw materials in our manufacturing processes changed in 2021 compared to 2020 due to changes in output and product mix, causing our scope 3 emissions in this category to decrease. Because we are expanding our operations, our scope 3 emissions from capital goods increased in 2021.
» Fuel-and-energy-related activities (not included in scope 1 or 2): Our usage of fuel and electricity in our manufacturing processes changed in 2021 compared to 2020 due to changes in output, product mix, and expansion, causing our scope 3 emissions from fuel-and-energy- related activities to increase.
» Upstream and downstream transportation and distribution: Our emissions from upstream and downstream transportation and distribution decreased due to differences in shipment types and amounts in 2021 compared to 2020.
» Business travel and employee commuting: During 2021, we continued to operate the company globally, but due to travel restrictions were unable to travel for business purposes during most of 2021, causing our scope 3 emissions from business travel to decline beyond already experienced decrease in 2020. In 2021, we began using a communication and collaboration software solution, which enabled our employees to easily collaborate with each other and external stakeholders, instead of traveling to meet in person.
Emissions associated with employees working from home are included in the employee commuting category. Overall emissions from employee commuting decreased due to divestment of the LED business.
» Waste generated in operations: The GHG emissions associated with the disposal and transportation of our waste decreased in 2021 compared to 2020 due to a decrease in the amount of waste we generated as we divested our LED business. More information about our trends in waste generation data can be found in the Waste Management section of this report.
» Use and end of life treatment of sold products: The GHG emissions from the use of our sold products over their estimated lifetimes decreased slightly in 2021 due to product mix differences in 2020 versus 2021. Because our products are small, the GHG emissions associated with the end-of-life treatment of our sold products did not change significantly.
» Contract manufacturing: Because we are expanding our operations, our scope 3 emissions from contract manufacturing also increased in 2021.
Future Look: »We are continuously exploring ways to decrease our scope 3 GHG impacts. We expect our emissions in some categories to increase in line with our growth, as well as emissions in some categories to decrease due to technology improvements.
» We have new GHG goals to help track our progress to reduce our climate change impacts. Our primary focus will be to first reduce the GHG impacts of our operations (scope 1 and 2).


Other Air Emissions in Metric Tons 1 Air pollutants are classified as hazardous air pollutants (HAP) based on the US EPA list of HAP. Air pollutants are classified as toxic air pollutants (TAP) per the regulations applicable at each facility.
When applicable, our manufacturing sites are subject to local air emissions regulations for criteria pollutants (NOx, SO2, etc.), hazardous air pollutants (HAP)1 and toxic air pollutants (TAP)1. Our sites comply with regulations through each site’s air permit requirements. For select processes, we use air emissions control devices, including dust collectors, thermal oxidizers, and scrubbers.
OTHER AIR EMISSIONS 2021 Other Air Emissions Data Trends 2021 Information: » Our usage of raw materials and fuel in our manufacturing processes changed in 2021 compared to 2020 due to changes in output, product mix, and expansion, causing our air emissions to either decrease or increase depending on the pollutant.
Future Look: » We are continuously exploring ways to decrease our air emission impacts. When appropriate, we will continue using and installing air emissions control devices, including dust collectors, thermal oxidizers, and scrubbers. Our Marcy, NY Fab will also be constructed with air emissions control devices to reduce our air emissions as we expand.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 81 * Air pollutants are classified as hazardous air pollutants (HAP) based on the United States EPA list of HAP. Air pollutants are classified as toxic air pollutants (TAP) per the regulations applicable at each facility.
45.2 33.3 16.0 7.2 7.8 2.2 0.12 35.0 41.9 12.3 8.7 9.2 2.4 0.12 28.1 26.9 13.7 9.9 10.7 2.1 0.16 0
5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50. 
NOx VOC CO HAP TAP PM SO2 2019 2020 2021. 
SO2


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 82. 
Water Management. 
Because water quality and scarcity are growing concerns that affect all people and industries, we are committed to proper water use management practices for our Wolfspeed sites. We continuously strive to implement best management practices that conserve and recycle water and prevent and reduce water pollution: • Our Durham, NC site has been recycling process water since 2005, and currently recycles an average of 120,000 gallons of water per day.
• Our new Marcy, NY facility is planned to use a water recycling system similar to that used at our Durham, NC facility. More information about our Marcy, NY facility can be found in the Expanding Capacity for Silicon Carbide section of this report.
• In the past, we have had facility-specific water goals. In 2021, we developed our first corporate-wide water recycle goal to increase our water recycle rate by 25% by 2025 relative to the 2019 baseline.
• In 2007, our Durham, NC and RTP, NC sites initiated a wastewater pre-treatment system, which prevents approximately 30,000 pounds of fluoride from entering a local water supply each year.
• In 2020, we performed our first corporate-wide water risk assessment which was reviewed and updated with 2021 water information.
• At our owned manufacturing sites, we have implemented best management practices for control of stormwater to minimize the effects of stormwater run-off.
• Our Durham, NC site is reducing the risks associated with chemical spills by using a stormwater conveyance system that allows for containment in the event of an incident.
• In 2018, we installed additional rainwater collection at our Durham, NC site, and now collect rainwater to supplement water used in the production process. In 2020, we expanded the catchment area, which will help us increase the amount of rainwater harvested in future years.
Water Withdrawals, Discharges, and Consumption. 
All of our manufacturing facilities’ water withdrawals primarily come from municipal (third-party) sources. Our other source of water withdrawal includes rainwater (fresh surface water), depending on the facility. Most of our water is used during manufacturing including cooling tower use, but water is also used for irrigation and human consumption (i.e., drinking water, sanitary sewer, and water used in locations where we have an on-site cafeteria). We work internally to ensure each department receives the water required for each step of the manufacturing process so as to not compromise product quality. We engage with our local water supply and wastewater treatment plants to plan for infrastructure needs tied to future water use and have a water conservation and management plan, in the event that water availability from local sources is reduced due to a drought. We have not yet worked with other suppliers or customers on water-related issues.
WATER MANAGEMENT. 
OUR GOAL. 
Increase water recycling rate by 25% by 2025 2021 PROGRESS. 
Achieved 14% water recycling rate. 
Decreased ~20% relative to a base year. 
OUR AMBITION. 
Ensure sustainable and efficient use of water across all sectors. Become a leader in addressing water scarcity.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 83. 
Water Risk Assessments. 
Our Approach At this time, our water-related risk assessment scope only includes direct operations, but other stakeholders, like customers, local communities, regulators, and investors, are tangentially included in our assessment. A variety of risks for our direct operations are considered during our assessment, which have the potential to affect our value chain. We have not yet included our suppliers in our assessment. Suppliers are relevant, and we expect to include them in water-related risk assessments in the coming years.
Depending on the facility, we use the WRI Aqueduct and/or the WWF Water Risk Filter tool to assess our water risks. We use the WWF Water Risk Filter tool to analyze the water risks of our owned manufacturing facilities, which represent our largest water users, because the tool allows us to answer questions related to our specific industry (i.e., semiconductors) and specific questions related to each of our facilities to obtain a deeper look at our risks. We used the WRI Aqueduct tool to assess water stress of all facilities and risks for smaller leased facilities because it is a good way to assess water risks based on location and allows us to view future (2030 and 2040) water risks for all facilities.
The WRI Aqueduct and WWF Water Risk Filter tools provide our risks in a number of different categories, such as quantity physical risks (e.g., water scarcity, water stress, flooding, and drought risks), quality physical risks (e.g., quality of wastewater, potential for eutrophication), regulatory risks (e.g., drinking water/sanitation issues, environmental regulations), and reputational risks (e.g., ESG performance, community conflicts).
We consider risks that have the potential to greatly impact our business. We define a substantive financial or strategic impact as something that will cause significant impact to our business, both internally (i.e., our direct operations) or externally (i.e., our upstream and downstream value chain). We use $1 million USD to establish a threshold for substantive financial impact when determining potential impacts due to water-related impacts. An example of a substantive financial impact could be water scarcity issues affecting the ability for us to manufacture our products, causing brand image, revenue and/or customer relations issues. Good quality freshwater is vital for direct use (rinsing, cooling, cutting) for our manufacturing processes. Because our manufacturing processes require a specific quantity and quality (ultra-pure) of freshwater to operate without product contamination, any disruptions to our supply of water at our manufacturing facilities could result in a substantive financial impact to us and other members of our value chain (e.g., our customers).
Our Results We analyzed all our facilities (both owned and leased) for current and future water risks by using WWF Water Risk Filter and/or WRI Aqueduct tools. We also assessed the risks of our new fabrication facility in Marcy, NY. We plan to use the results of the analyses to inform our internal decision-making process, including planning for future water stewardship projects and goals and targets setting.
We believe that some of our manufacturing facilities exposed to water risks have the potential for a substantive financial or strategic impact on our business. Using the results of our WWF Water Risk Filter analysis, two of our existing manufacturing sites exhibit physical risks that could affect our business, including water scarcity and quality. The other existing manufacturing facility. 
Our Durham, NC site has a water recycle system to offset municipal water purchases and reduce the consumption of water. In the past, our water recycle rate goals were developed for individual sites determined to be Wolfspeed’s largest water users. In 2021, we developed our first corporate-wide goals to increase our water recycling rate by 25% by 2025 relative to our 2019 baseline. Our goals are set based on the technology available, the quality of water needed as an output of the process, the availability of water in the operating region, water recycle regulations in place, and to align with our ISO 14001 environmental management systems. The goal aims to ensure our sites optimize their water recycling systems, including ensuring better operation and maintenance of the systems to reduce down time.
All facilities discharge to a municipal (third-party) wastewater treatment plant and are subject to local discharge requirements. Water discharged meets local regulatory requirements for water quality, including nutrients levels, metals, pH, temperature, etc. All our manufacturing sites have wastewater permits and/or requirements that mandate the quality of water discharged. Our stormwater is also monitored to ensure it meets discharge criteria, which prevents degradation of local water supplies.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 84. 
Water-Related Risks. 
We have analyzed water-related risks for our manufacturing facilities exposed to water risks that have the potential for a substantive financial or strategic impact on our business.
Potential Risk Potential Impacts. 
Estimated Financial Implications Management Method. 
Increased water scarcity. 
Direct Operations (Durham and RTP):
We feel that increased water scarcity could be a potential risk for us in the Raleigh/Durham/Research Triangle Park area in the longer-term future, which is where two of our main manufacturing operations are located, based on the current and future expected growth in the area. Raleigh is one of the fastest growing cities in the United States and increased growth in the area could potentially lead to water availability issues in the future.
We have assessed our future risks out to 2030 and 2040 for water stress and water supply of the area in which these facilities are located. The WRI Aqueduct tool shows that there will be “near normal” change in water scarcity and water supply in the area by 2030 and 2040.
About ten years ago, we experienced a drought at these facilities and were required to evaluate alternative sources for water withdrawals. Although the WWF Water Risk Filter indicates a very low Drought Frequency Probability for these facilities, we believe water scarcity still has the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic impact.
$8 - $16 million annually. 
We estimated the financial impact based on replacing water directly purchased from the municipality that would need to be trucked in for our manufacturing sites in Durham and RTP.
Our Durham facility operates a water recycling system to offset municipal water purchases and reduce the consumption of water. We continuously explore options for water recycle improvements to help offset the expected increase in water withdrawals as we expand.
The reservoirs in the area from which we receive water were man-made to provide flood control and water supply to the Raleigh/ Durham/Research Triangle Park area, and specifically designed to provide sufficient water even in severe drought situations.
We have a business continuity plan, which takes into consideration potential risks that could cause a significant business interruption and describes strategies for how we mitigate and respond to major events.
We have a crisis response team, which is comprised of key personnel in different departments throughout the company, that reviews possible solutions in the event of a situation that could cause a significant business interruption.
Malware/ ransom ware attack. 
Direct Operations (Durham and RTP):
We purchase water through the city government’s utility and discharge our water to the county’s Publicly Owned Treatment Works. In 2020, the city and county government systems where these facilities are located experienced a malware attack, causing their data servers to be taken offline for a few days.
Although the malware attack in 2020 did not affect our ability to receive or discharge water during the event, this kind of event has the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic impact on our business.
If a malware or ransomware attack affects our city and county, we may have issues being able to purchase water if the city government’s utility is forced to shut down and/or issues being able to discharge water if the county’s Publicly Owned Treatment Works is unable to operate.
If we are unable to receive water, it could cause us to stop some of our manufacturing processes. If we are unable to discharge water to our Publicly Owned Treatment Works, it could also stop some of our manufacturing processes or we would be required to find an alternative method to dispose of our water, such as disposing our wastewater as waste.
$4 - $6 million. 
We estimated the financial impact based on loss revenue if our production is stopped due to inability to withdraw and/or discharge water.
Our Durham facility operates a water recycling system to offset municipal water purchases and reduce the consumption of water. We continuously explore options for water recycle improvements to help offset the expected increase in water withdrawals as we expand.
We have a business continuity plan, which takes into consideration potential risks that could cause a significant business interruption and describes strategies for how we mitigate and respond to major events.
We have a crisis response team, which is comprised of key personnel in different departments throughout the company, that reviews possible solutions in the event of a situation that could cause a significant business interruption.
was analyzed using the WWF Water Risk Filter but not found to have high risks in terms of the potential for a substantive financial or strategic impact to our business. We also assessed our smaller leased facilities using the WRI Aqueduct tool, and although the results of the analysis show varied levels of risk depending on location, we do not feel that these risks have the potential to cause a substantive financial or strategic impact on our business based on the activities and size of those operations.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 85. 
Water-Related Opportunities. 
We have analyzed water-related opportunities for our manufacturing facilities that have the potential for a substantive financial or strategic impact on our business.
Potential Opportunity Potential Impacts Estimated Financial Implications. 
Improved water efficiency in operations. 
Direct Operations (Durham):
We continuously explore options for water recycle improvements to help offset the expected increase in water withdrawals as we expand.
We operate a water recycling system and rainwater harvesting system at this facility, where we are exposed to water risks because it has the potential for a substantive financial or strategic impact on our business.
We continue to evaluate newer technologies with respect to rainwater harvesting and water recycling and reuse, and plan to implement them when feasible. Additional water recycle and rainwater capture opportunities have been identified at this facility and are currently under review for technical feasibility, cost, and potential timeline.
$760,000 - $1 million annually. 
The potential financial impact represents the amount of money saved annually by harvesting rainwater and recycling our water versus purchasing water from the local utility. The financial impact includes the savings from our current system as well as estimated savings from potential additional opportunities.
Improved water efficiency in operations. 
Direct Operations (Marcy):
We continuously explore options for water recycle improvements to help offset the expected increase in water withdrawals as we expand.
With our new state-of-the-art, automotive-qualified 200mm-capable wafer fabrication facility in Marcy, NY, which is complemented by our materials factory expansion currently underway at our Durham, NC headquarters, we will remain dependent on good quality water and anticipate our total water dependency to increase in the future. Our Marcy, NY facility is planned to use a water recycling system similar to that used at our Durham, NC facility.
$100,000 - $300,000 annually. 
The potential financial impact represents the estimated amount of money that will be saved annually by various water efficiency projects built into the design of our new wafer fabrication facility and from recycling water versus purchasing water from the local utility.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 86. 
Extremely High (>80%) 0.000% High (40-80%) 14%
Medium - High (2040%) 86%
Low - Medium (1020%) 0.000%
Low (<10%) 0%
Extremely High (>80%) 0.010% High (40-80%) 18%
Medium - High (2040%) 80%
Low - Medium (1020%) 0.006%
Low (<10%) 2%
Extremely High (>80%) 0.007% High (40-80%) 17%
Medium - High (20-40%) 82%
Low - Medium (1020%) 0.004%
Low (<10%) 1% 2021 Water Usage. 
Source All Facilities Facilities Located in Water Stress Areas1 Facilities Not Located in Water Stress Areas1. 
Water Withdrawals (millions of gallons)
Third-Party Water 274.6 45.7 228.9. 
Fresh Surface Water (Rainwater) 1.75 0 1.75. 
Total Water Withdrawals 276.4 45.7 230.65. 
Water Recycled (millions of gallons)
Total Water Recycled 46.5 0 46.5. 
Water Discharges (millions of gallons)
Total Third-Party Wastewater 184.6 32.7 151.9. 
Water Consumption (millions of gallons)
Water Consumed 91.8 13.1 78.7. 
Water Stress. 
We used the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas tool to assess the current and future (2030 and 2040) water stress of all our facilities. We consider areas with water stress to be those locations with the risk category “High (40-80%)” or “Extremely High (>80%)” for baseline water stress. Based on that criterion, five of our small, leased facilities are located in areas with the risk category “High” or “Extremely High.” These offices use small amounts of water and represent only 0.03% of our total 2021 global water withdrawals (same as last year). One of our manufacturing facilities is located in an area with the risk category “High.” Its 2021 water withdrawals represent approximately 16.52% of our total 2021 global water withdrawals, which is higher than last year by approximately 3% due to the divestment of our LED business which is related to the increased percentage of this facility’s water withdrawal in total.
Water Withdrawals1 Water Discharges1 Water Consumption1 2021 Water Usage by Water Stress Category [1] All of our global facilities were assessed for baseline water stress using the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. Baseline water stress measures the ratio of total water withdrawals to available renewable surface and groundwater supplies. Low water stress indicates the facility(ies) scored 0% to 10% for water stress. Low-medium water stress indicates the facility(ies) scored 10% to 20% for water stress. Medium-high water stress indicates the facility(ies) scored 20% to 40% for water stress. High water stress indicates the facility(ies) scored 40% to 80% for water stress. Extremely high water stress indicates the facility(ies) scored 80% to 100% for water stress. (Source: WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas)


Water Discharges and Consumption (Water Out) in Millions of Gallons Water Demand in Millions of Gallons 2021 Water Data Trends 2021 Information: » The overall withdrawal and discharge volumes decreased due to the LED business divestment. After adjusting 2019 and 2020 data for this structural change, we still have a net decrease in water discharge despite making process changes, including expanding production at some of our facilities, causing water to be used and discharged at an increased rate.
» Better utilization of our rainwater harvest system significantly increased our captured rainwater amount in 2021 in comparison with our 2020 amount.
» Our total water consumed increased, which is tied to our chilled water needs which were slightly higher in 2021 and contributed to increased consumed water. Additionally, we installed a water meter at our RTP, NC facility which allowed us more accurately to monitor and measure our discharged water.
Future Look: » Our water demand is expected to increase in the future due to our new facility in Marcy, NY, complemented by our expansion currently underway at our Durham, NC headquarters. We continuously explore options for water use efficiency and water recycle improvements to help offset the expected increase in water use as we expand. Refer to the Water-Related Opportunities subsection to learn more about our future water opportunities.
» Our new Marcy, NY Fab has a water recycling system and water efficiency built into the design of the building. Learn more in the Expanding Capacity for Silicon Carbide section of this report.
» We are installing a new water reclamation process in Durham, NC that will provide an additional 200,000 gallons of recyclable water per day.
» We have a new water recycle goal to help further reduce our water impacts.
227.2 255.4 274.6 49.7 49.7 46.5 0.1 0.1 1.8 0
50 100 150 200 250 300 350 2019 2020 2021. 
Municipal Water Recycled Water Rainwater 142.8 186.4 184.7 84.4 69.1 91.7 0
50 100 150 200 250 300 350 2019 2020 2021. 
Waste Water Water Consumed. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 87


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 88. 
Our Products. 
Our Power and RF products made from Silicon Carbide outperform conventional silicon components. In many applications, fewer Silicon Carbide components are required compared to silicon components when creating an electrical circuit with a similar output. To sustain a required current and voltage, silicon components must be larger, meaning Silicon Carbide components perform better with less materials required. Using less Silicon Carbide components for a circuit and reducing the amount of materials in a Silicon Carbide versus silicon component means less materials are required to be disposed of at the end of their lives.
WASTE MANAGEMENT. 
OUR GOAL. 
Achieve 85% waste diversion rate from landfill by 2025 2021 PROGRESS. 
Achieved 46% waste diversion. 
OUR AMBITION. 
Be a company that directs to zero waste through waste reduction and recycling.
Our Manufacturing. 
The responsibility for waste generation spans from cradle to grave, and Wolfspeed is dedicated to minimizing waste and disposing of waste safely and responsibly. We use many different hazardous and non-hazardous raw materials to manufacture our products, including acids, bases, and solvents, which results in waste. We also generate solid waste from miscellaneous activities at our facilities, including pallets and cardboard from incoming raw materials and equipment, general office waste, and cafeteria waste. Along our value chain, our largest impacts come from waste generated from our own activities. The transportation of our waste and spills or releases on our property or to the environment are possible negative impacts of our waste. For some of our waste, we seek ways to turn our waste into fuel, which we consider a positive impact of our waste. Because our products are small and longlasting, we do not foresee large impacts associated with the waste of our products. Guidance for how to dispose of our products at the end of their lives can be found in the Product End of Life section of this report. We have not yet assessed the waste generation of our upstream activities.
We have processes in place to ensure our waste is stored and managed to minimize impacts to employees and the environment and aim to operate our facilities according to applicable waste regulations. Our goal is to reduce the amount of waste sent to landfills and ensure we choose waste disposal methods that we feel reduce the impact on the environment as much as possible. When choosing a vendor for our waste streams, we ensure the vendors are reputable and utilize the appropriate technology for the waste stream. We require all waste vendors to have a contract and sign our Supplier Code of Conduct, which outlines requirements for environmental performance and compliance.


In addition to reducing waste generation, we are dedicated to reusing or recycling materials whenever technically possible and economically reasonable. We seek opportunities for waste to be recycled or become a feedstock for use in other manufacturing processes. This not only lowers costs but helps us and other manufacturers to decrease virgin raw material consumption and reduce environmental impacts. We have implemented the following practices as part of our commitment to reduce, reuse and recycle materials:
FROM 2014 TO 2015, WE REDUCED OUR CHEMICAL WASTE GENERATION FROM MANUFACTUARING BY 277,000 pounds. 
WE REDUCED THE CONSUMPTION OF CHEMICALS IN OUR MANUFACTURING PROCESSES, SPECIFICALLY THE USE OF ONE OF OUR MAJOR RAW MATERIALS BY 70% in 2016. 
WE RECYCLE SOLID WASTE MATERIALS IN MANUFACTURING AND OFFICE SITES, INCLUDING METAL, PLASTIC, GLASS, PAPER, CARDBOARD, WOOD, CANS AND BOTTLES.
SINCE 2016, WE HAVE SENT WASTE LIQUID SOLVENTS TO A FACILITY FOR USE AS ALTERNATIVE FUEL. WE ALSO SEND SPECIFIC SOLID WASTE STREAMS FOR USE AS FUELS IN WASTE-TO-ENERGY FACILITIES.
IN 2016, OUR DURHAM, NC FACILITY BEGAN COMPOSTING WASTE AT THE CAFETERIA. THE COMPOSTING PROGRAM DIVERTS APPROXIMATELY 25,000. 
POUNDS OF WASTE FROM THE LANDFILL PER YEAR. 85% by 2025 132,000 lbs of raw materials in 2020 compared to 2019 usage. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 89. 
IN 2016, WE SET OUR FIRST WASTE-TO-LANDFILL REDUCTION GOALS AT OUR NORTH CAROLINA FACILITIES. IN 2021, WE DEVELOPED OUR FIRST CORPORATE-WIDE WASTE GOAL TO INCREASE OUR WASTE DIVERSION FROM LANDFILL TO. 
IN 2019, WE DEVELOPED A PROGRAM THAT SUCCESSFULLY DIVERTED 130,000 POUNDS OF A SPECIFIC MATERIAL AT OUR DURHAM, NC FACILITY FROM THE LANDFILL TO A RECYCLING FACILITY. THIS IS IN ADDITION TO THE 430,000 POUNDS OF A DIFFERENT FORM OF THE SAME MATERIAL SHIPPED TO A RECYCLING FACILITY THAT YEAR.
IN 2020, WE WORKED TO ENHANCE ONE OF OUR KEY MANUFACTURING PROCESSES, WHICH RESULTED IN A REDUCTION OF APPROXIMATELY


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 90. 
Waste Generation in Millions of Pounds Waste Generation by Disposal Method. 
Waste Disposal Method 2019 2020 2021. 
Hazardous Waste. 
Wastewater Treated 51.9% 64.1% 65.8%
Recovery, including Energy Recovery 40.1% 28.3% 22.5%
Landfill 6.0% 3.5% 4.6%
Incineration 2.1% 4.1% 7.1%
Recycling 0.01% 0.04% 0.10%
Non-Hazardous Waste (including Solid Waste)
Recycling 32.1% 27.6% 24.9%
Wastewater Treated 27.7% 22.0% 31.9%
Landfill 20.4% 34.8% 32.9%
Recovery, including Energy Recovery 12.0% 9.6% 5.7%
Reuse 7.0% 5.5% 4.1%
Composting 0.8% 0.4% 0.3%
Incineration 0.1% 0.2% 0.2% 2020 Total Waste Generation by Disposal Method 2021 Total Waste Generation by Disposal Method 3.8 4.2 4.4 8.4 8.9 7.7 0
2 4
6 8
10 12 14 2019 2020 2021. 
Hazardous Waste Non-Hazardous Waste. 
Composting 0.3%
Incineration 1.4% Reuse 3.7%
Wastewater Treated 35.5%
Recovery, Including Energy Recovery 15.6%
Landfill 24.8%
Recycling 18.7%
Composting 0.2%
Incineration 2.7% Reuse 2.6%
Wastewater. 
Treated 44.2%
Recovery, Including Energy Recovery 11.8%
Landfill 22.6%
Recycling 15.9%


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 91 2021 Waste Data Trends 2021 Information: » Our total waste volume decreased due to the LED business divestment. After adjusting 2019 and 2020 data for this structural change, we still have a net decrease in non-hazardous waste including solid waste. There was a slight increase in hazardous waste.
» Our percent of waste to landfill between 2020 and 2021 decreased due to less employees being in the office (e.g., our total waste composted in 2021 decreased by about 8,000 lbs because less employees were using our cafeteria). Our construction activities in 2021 didn’t result in sending a significant amount of non-recyclable materials to landfill.
» We are looking into identification of alternative disposal outlets, investigation of “sludge” reduction and potential to use it as material, recycling options for construction waste, and waste stream analysis of generated waste at our facilities in Durham and RTP, NC.
Future Look: » We are continuously exploring ways to decrease our waste generation impacts. We have a new waste-to-landfill reduction goal to help further reduce our waste-to-landfill impacts.
Wolfspeed leads the industry transition from silicon to Silicon Carbide. The power of Silicon Carbide expands the boundaries of technology to make devices smaller, lighter, and more powerful. Our core business supports the circular economy concept by unlocking a new era of energy efficiency. We are a catalyst to ignite new breakthroughs for tomorrow, trading miles per gallon for more miles per charge.
Our Power and Radio Frequency (RF) products allow other industries to develop leading energy efficient products in applications such as renewable energy, wireless communication, and electric vehicles. Our RF products help enable the transition to 5G, which requires the transmission of more data at faster speeds with greater precision. Our products can achieve the greater bandwidth and efficiency that 5G requires. Smart cities, smart manufacturing, autonomous vehicles, and connected transportation can all be realized through the availability of 5G.
Our contribution to a circular economy extends beyond our products through our operations and supply chain. We constantly strive to minimize our resources use, eliminate hazardous materials and chemicals, recycle and reuse waste, and overall reduce our environmental impact.
Some of Wolfspeed’s activities supporting a concept of circularity:
We recycle metal, plastic, glass, paper, cardboard, wood, cans, and bottles.
We compost organic waste at the cafeteria in our Durham, NC facility.
Some parts of our electronic waste are refurbished.
Our waste liquid solvents and fuel bearing solid waste streams are used as alternative fuel at cement kilns.
Some waste streams from production are beneficially reused by other industries.
Liquid and solid precious metal streams are sent for recovery.
Our facility in Morgan Hill, CA uses 100% carbon-free electricity.
Our site in Durham, NC recycles process water.
Our manufacturing sites in North Carolina and California are certified to the ISO 14001 standard, which encourages a life cycle view of products and services.
We established corporate-wide targets for reduction emissions, recycling water, and diverting waste from landfill.
CIRCULAR ECONOMY


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 92 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com APPENDIX 2022


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 93 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX. 
GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments 102-1 Name of the organization Who We Are 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Who We Are 102-3 Location of headquarters Who We Are 102-4 Location of operations Who We Are. 
The majority of our products are manufactured at our production facilities located in North Carolina, California, Arkansas and New York (early 2022). We also use contract manufacturers for certain products and aspects of product fabrication, assembly, and packaging. We operate research and development facilities in North Carolina, Arizona, Arkansas, and California.
102-5 Ownership and legal form GRI Content Index Publicly traded company 102-6 Markets served Who We Are 2021 Annual Report* 102-7 Scale of the organization Who We Are 2021 Annual Report* 102-8 Information on employees and other workers. 
Our Employees. 
Our Early Career Employees. 
We employ over 4,500 regular full- and part-time employees. We also employ individuals on a temporary full-time basis and use the services of contractors as necessary. We also have a rapidly developing intern and co-op program. A significant portion of the organization’s activities are performed by workers who are employees. Only employees located in significant locations of operation are reported. Significant locations of operation refer to our owned manufacturing facilities located in the United States, which represent approximately 91.1% of our total number of employees in calendar year 2021.
102-9 Supply chain. 
Supply Chain. 
Supplier Code of Conduct*
Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy. 
California Proposition 65. 
Organizational Profile. 
GENERAL DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 94 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com. 
GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain. 
CEO Message 2021 Annual Report* 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach. 
Risk Management 2021 Annual Report* 102-12 External initiatives. 
Environment, Health, and Safety Policy (LEAD)
Environmental Management and ISO 14001. 
Product Quality. 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
Community Engagement. 
NC Environmental Stewardship Initiative. 
Our first EHS Policy was adopted in December 2015 and applies to all global Wolfspeed operations.
Our Durham and Research Triangle Park, NC sites became certified to ISO 14001 in May 2016. Our Morgan Hill, CA site became certified in early 2020. 
Our Durham, NC, Research Triangle Park, NC, Morgan Hill, CA, Mesa, AZ, and Fayetteville, AR sites are certified for quality standards (ISO 9001, IATF 16949, AS9100D).
We disclose our global GHG emissions inventory and climate change risks and opportunities to CDP Climate Change.
We support local organizations in the areas in which we operate.
Our North Carolina manufacturing facilities became members of the North Carolina Environmental Stewardship Initiative in 2018.
102-13 Membership of associations GRI Content Index. 
At the corporate level, we are a member of PowerAmerica, The Semiconductor Industry Association, German Electro and Digital Industry Association (ZVEI), European Center for Power Electronics (ECPE), Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG), and JEDEC Solid State Technology Association’s committee JC-14, Quality and Reliability of Solid State Products and committee JC-70, Wide Bandgap Power Electronic Conversion Semiconductors.
Organizational Profile (continued)
GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 95 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com. 
GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Message. 
GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments 102-18 Governance structure Board of Directors and Committee Composition. 
Strategy. 
Governance. 
Ethics and Integrity. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES. 
GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior. 
Code of Conduct*
Code of Ethics for Executive Officers and Other Senior Financial Personnel*
Our Code of Conduct reflects our commitment to integrity and describes standards of conduct for our employees and directors. Our executive officers and other senior financial personnel are also subject to additional policies stated in the Code of Ethics for Executive Officers and Other Senior Financial Personnel.
Includes Code of Conduct and supporting internal Company policies.
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Code of Conduct*
Our Code of Conduct contains our guidelines for ethical business practices, including how employees can report breaches of Wolfspeed policies.
Includes the Compliance Hotline.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 96 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com. 
GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Materiality Assessment 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements GRI Content Index The vast majority (more than 99.9%) of employees are not covered by collective bargaining agreements.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Materiality Assessment 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Materiality Assessment 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Materiality Assessment. 
GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2021 Annual Report* 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries. 
Sustainability Reporting. 
Materiality Assessment 102-47 List of material topics Materiality Assessment. 
Stakeholder Engagement. 
Reporting Practice. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 97. 
GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments 102-48 Restatements of information GRI Content Index. 
Any information that was reported in both this report and the previous report indicates the information was still relevant to 2021 operations. Refer to 102-49 for more information about changes in our reporting for current and previous years’ data.
There was a mismatch between scope 1 and scope 2 labeling in the graph on page 78. The correct labeling has been reflected in this report.
There was an error in energy units for total energy consumed on page 117 (MWh vs. GJ). The correct unit and amount are being reported in this report.
A total number of employees by employee type was accidentally high due to including full-time employees twice on page 138 (11,282 vs. 5,679). The correct total has been reflected within this report (adjusted for LED divesture).
There was a typo in a value of GHG savings from employee use of EV charging stations at owned facilities on page 147 (7.5 vs. 17.4). The revised value has been reported in this report.
102-49 Changes in reporting GRI Content Index. 
We finalized the divesture of the LED business in March 2021. The data presented in this report for years prior to 2021 exclude this business (unless stated otherwise) so that we can establish a new baseline around our materials, Power, and Radio Frequency operations.
We added all our global facilities into our 2019 market-based scope 2 emissions because they were not included in a calendar year of 2019.
102-50 Reporting period GRI Content Index. 
Calendar Year 2021. The majority of the data included in this report is on a calendar year basis (January to December). Financial data is reported on a fiscal year basis (July to June).
102-51 Date of most recent report GRI Content Index 10/31/2022. 
Reporting Practice (continued)
GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 98 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com. 
GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments 102-52 Reporting cycle GRI Content Index. 
The reporting cycle is annual. However, content may be updated throughout the reporting cycle. Refer to our Sustainability website pages on wolfspeed.com for the most recent information.
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report GRI Content Index #Wolfspeed_Sustainability@wolfspeed.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Sustainability Reporting 102-55 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index 102-56 External assurance. 
Sustainability Reporting. 
Independent Assurance Statement. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Economic Performance (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach 2021 Annual Report*
Economic Performance (2016) 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2021 Annual Report*
Economic Performance (2016) 201-2. 
Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change. 
TCFD Disclosures. 
Reporting Practice (continued)
Financial Performance. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES. 
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 99. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Energy (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
No Wolfspeed locations are subject to any country, regional, or industry regulations and policies for energy. When applicable, state air permit requirements limit the amount of fuel usage. 
Energy (2016) 302-1. 
Energy consumption within the organization. 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
Sustainability Data. 
All energy usage reported is purchased from the local utilities’ energy grid. Our Morgan Hill, CA facility purchases energy directly from renewable/carbon-free sources based on a standard product offering (i.e., a third-party company supplies renewable/ carbon-free energy through our local utility’s grid). All other renewable/carbon-free energy used at our facilities are based on the energy mix from the local utility. We do not sell energy. Energy consumption is determined using monthly supplier invoices or estimated using square feet of building space where invoices are not available.
Energy (2016) 302-2. 
Energy consumption outside of the organization. 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
Sustainability Data. 
This metric is reported in terms of scope 3 GHG emissions.
Energy (2016) 302-3 Energy Intensity. 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
Sustainability Data. 
We measured our energy intensity metric in terms of our EP100 goal. Our goal included all energy (fuel and electricity) consumed at our manufacturing operations. We retired this target in 2021 because we replaced it with our new climate change-related targets.
Energy (2016) 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption. 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
Sustainability Data. 
Energy Efficiency of Operations


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 100. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Energy (2016) 302-5. 
Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. 
Product Sustainability. 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
Sustainability Data. 
The savings data reported represent what our products sold in 2021 will save over their estimated lifetimes. Energy usage and GHG emissions from our products were compared to their less efficient alternative products to derive energy use savings. Our Power products, made from Silicon Carbide, were compared to similar products made from silicon. Our Radio Frequency products, made from Silicon Carbide, were compared to similar products made from either silicon or gallium-arsenide.
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Emissions (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Other Air Emissions. 
Our Contributions to the UN SDGs. 
TCFD Disclosures. 
We are not currently subject to any country, regional, or industry regulations and policies for GHG emissions. When applicable, our United States manufacturing sites are subject to local air pollution regulations for criteria pollutants (NOx, SOx, etc.) and toxic air pollutants. Our sites comply with regulations through each site’s air permit requirements.
Emissions (2016) 305-1 Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions. 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
SASB Disclosures. 
TCFD Disclosures. 
Sustainability Data. 
All scope 1 emissions were calculated using methodologies and emission factors from the United States EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule: • Global warming potentials: 40 CFR 98, Table A-1 (IPCC AR4 - 100 year) • Fuel usage emissions: 40 CFR 98 Subpart C • Electronics manufacturing emissions: 40 CFR 98 Subpart I. 
The gases included in the calculations are CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, refrigerants and heat transfer fluids (HTFs). We do not emit biogenic CO2.
Energy Efficiency of Operations (continued)
Climate Change. 
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 101. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Emissions (2016) 305-2 Energy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions. 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
SASB Disclosures. 
TCFD Disclosures. 
Sustainability Data. 
We used the 2020 EPA eGRID subregional emission factors to calculate scope 2 emissions from the use of electricity at our Unites States facilities. For our facilities outside of the United States, International Energy Agency (IEA) emission factors were used. We used global warming potentials from the United States EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule, 40 CFR 98, Table A-1 (IPCC AR4 - 100 year). We do not emit biogenic CO2.
Emissions (2016) 305-3 Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions. 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
TCFD Disclosures. 
Sustainability Data. 
Scope 3 emissions were calculated for all relevant categories except processing of sold products, which is relevant but not yet calculated. Sources of emission factors include EPA eGRID, International Energy Agency (IEA), EPA GHG Emission Factors Hub, EPA WARM, DEFRA, and Greenhouse Gas Protocol (Quantis). We used global warming potentials from the United States EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule, 40 CFR 98, Table A-1 (IPCC AR4 - 100 year).
Emissions (2016) 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions. 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
Sustainability Data. 
Emissions (2016) 305-7. 
Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions. 
Other Air Emissions. 
Sustainability Data. 
Climate Change (continued)
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 102. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Water and Effluents (2018) 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Water Management. 
Our Contributions to the UN SDGs. 
Water and Effluents (2018) 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water Management. 
Water and Effluents (2018) 303-2. 
Management of water dischargerelated impacts. 
Water Management. 
Water and Effluents (2018) 303-3 Water withdrawal. 
Water Management. 
Sustainability Data. 
Water withdrawal data is either collected from meters, water utility bills, or estimated using square feet of building space where invoices/meters are not available.
Water and Effluents (2018) 303-4 Water discharge. 
Water Management. 
Sustainability Data. 
Water discharge data is either collected from meters, water utility bills, or assumed equal to water withdrawal for sites where invoices/ meters are not available. The recycled water is reused in our process. Wastewater is sent to local wastewater treatment facilities. Water consumed in process refers to water that is consumed or evaporated during manufacturing. Water discharged meets local regulatory requirements for water quality.
Water and Effluents (2018) 303-5 Water Consumption. 
Water Management. 
Sustainability Data. 
Other than small rainwater collection tanks, we do not hold water in water storage facilities or reservoirs.
Water and Wastewater Management. 
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 103. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Waste (2020) 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Waste Management. 
Our Contributions to the UN SDGs. 
Waste (2020) 306-1. 
Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts. 
Waste Management. 
Waste (2020) 306-2. 
Management of significant waste-related impacts. 
Waste Management. 
Waste (2020) 306-3 Waste generated. 
Waste Management. 
SASB Disclosures. 
Sustainability Data. 
We use various methods to collect and monitor waste-related data, including manifests, invoices, vendor reports, estimated weights based on container size, and spreadsheets.
We determine whether a waste is hazardous or non-hazardous based on the applicable regulation where the facility is located (e.g., RCRA for our United States facilities).
We report our waste numbers in pounds throughout this report. In 2021, we generated 1,987.3 metric tons of hazardous waste and 3,564.7 metric tons of nonhazardous waste (including solid waste).
Waste (2020) 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal. 
Waste Management. 
Circular Economy. 
SASB Disclosures. 
Sustainability Data. 
We do not import or export hazardous waste and do not ship hazardous waste internationally. All of the hazardous waste reported in our Waste Management section is transported for treatment. We do not include waste treated for elementary neutralization on-site in our hazardous waste totals. Waste disposal method information is provided by our waste disposal vendors. Wastewater discharged to local Publicly Owned Treatment Works is not included in our non-hazardous waste totals.
Waste (2020) 306-5 Waste directed to disposal. 
Waste Management. 
SASB Disclosures. 
Sustainability Data. 
Refer to comment for 306-4 above.
Waste Management. 
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 104. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Employment (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Our Employees. 
Our Early Career Employees. 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion. 
Employee Engagement. 
Employment (2016) 401-1. 
New employee hires and employee turnover. 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion. 
Sustainability Data. 
Providing new hire percentages would be misleading because such information is not tracked in the way in which this disclosure indicator is framed and therefore would not add any value by inclusion. The new hire rate numbers are included. New hire data can be found in the Diversity, Equity & Inclusion section. The company considers the employee turnover information to be confidential. For competitive and other valid business reasons, we do not report our employee turnover rates.
Employment (2016) 401-2. 
Benefits provided to fulltime employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees. 
Benefits. 
Employment (2016) 401-3 Parental leave Benefits. 
Sustainability Data. 
Only employees located in significant locations of operations in the United States are reported. Significant locations of operations in the United States refer to our owned manufacturing facilities located in the United States, which represents approximately 91.1% of our total number of employees in calendar year 2021.
Training and Education (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach Training and Development. 
Training and Education (2016) 404-1. 
Average hours of training per year per employee. 
Training and Development. 
Sustainability Data. 
Employee Attraction, Development, and Retention. 
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 105 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Training and Education (2016) 404-2. 
Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs. 
Training and Development. 
Programs to upgrade employee skills can be found in the Training and Development section of this report.
We also offer transition assistance programs. We offer outplacement services to employees terminated as a result of reduction in workforce.
Training and Education (2016) 404-3. 
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. 
Training and Development. 
GRI Content Index 100% of employees who are employed at the time of performance reviews will receive one.
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Diversity and Equal Opportunity (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion. 
Our Contributions to the UN SDGs. 
Code of Conduct*
Diversity and Equal Opportunity (2016) 405-1. 
Diversity of governance bodies and employees. 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion. 
Sustainability Data. 
Governance Bodies: Governance Bodies is defined as our Board of Directors, which has nine members.
Employees: We consider the gender distribution information of our employees confidential. Providing percentage of employees in the specific age group diversity category’s format would provide a misleading understanding of the company’s age-related information. Providing the other indicators of diversity such as ethnicity is limited by self-reporting constraints.
Our approach to diversity of governance bodies and employees can be found in the Diversity, Equity & Inclusion section.
Employee Attraction, Development, and Retention (continued)
Employee Diversity and Equal Opportunity. 
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 106 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Diversity and Equal Opportunity (2016) 405-2. 
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men. 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion. 
The company considers pay information to be confidential. For competitive and other valid business reasons, we do not report this metric. Our approach to remuneration can be found in the Diversity, Equity &Inclusion section.
Diversity and Equal Opportunity (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Our Employees. 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion. 
Code of Conduct*
Includes various internal Company policies. 
Diversity and Equal Opportunity (2016) 406-1. 
Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 
GRI Content Index For privacy and other valid business reasons, we do not report this metric.
Employee Diversity and Equal Opportunity (continued)
GRI CONTENT INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 107. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Local Communities (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Community Engagement. 
Our Contributions to the UN SDGs. 
Local Communities (2016) 413-1. 
Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. 
Community Engagement. 
We currently have community engagement programs at all our North American facilities, which represents the majority of our material operations. More information about our community engagement efforts can be found in the Community Engagement section of this report.
At all locations, we have occupational health and safety teams, other worker representation bodies, and means of employee participation (e.g., Incident evaluation, Employee Resource Groups, etc.,) that address work, environmental, ‘and social matters within the company.
Local Communities (2016) 413-2. 
Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities. 
GRI Content Index. 
We believe that our operations do not have a higher than average potential of negative impacts, or actual negative impacts, on the social, economic, or environmental well-being of the local communities in which we operate. We conduct our activities in a manner that is consistent with our Code of Conduct and Values, which include being a good corporate citizen, dealing fairly in business, behaving ethically, supporting basic human rights and a safe and healthy workplace, doing business in an environmentally responsible manner, and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Community Engagement (Local and Global)
GRI CONTENT INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 108 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Occupational Health and Safety (2018) 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Health and Safety — Our Employees and Contractors. 
Our Contributions to the UN SDGs. 
Code of Conduct*
Our Health & Safety information has also been reported using guidance from the Center for Safety & Health Sustainability.
Occupational Health and Safety (2018) 403-1. 
Occupational health and safety management system programs. 
Health and Safety — Our Employees and Contractors. 
We are ahead of schedule for registering our Durham, NC, Research Triangle Park, NC, and Morgan Hill, CA manufacturing locations to ISO 45001:2018.
Occupational Health and Safety (2018) 403-2. 
Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation. 
Health and Safety — Our Employees and Contractors. 
Our incident evaluation process has received praise from external audit teams. 
Occupational Health and Safety (2018) 403-3 Occupational health services. 
Health and Safety — Our Employees and Contractors. 
Occupational Health and Safety (2018) 403-4. 
Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety. 
Health and Safety — Our Employees and Contractors. 
Top management has supported continued improvement with OH&S focused communications via daily safety topics in our Durham, NC Fab.
Occupational Health and Safety. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 109. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Occupational Health and Safety (2018) 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety. 
Health and Safety — Our Employees and Contractors. 
Occupational Health and Safety (2018) 403-6 Promotion of worker health. 
Health and Safety — Our Employees and Contractors. 
Our Mental Health Allies Employee Resource Group has generated improved awareness of the importance of mental health at work.
Occupational Health and Safety (2018) 403-7. 
Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships. 
Health and Safety — Our Employees and Contractors. 
Implementation of our new Enterprise Resource Planning system includes improvements to vetting suppliers using OH&S criteria.
Occupational Health and Safety (2018) 403-8. 
Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system. 
Health and Safety — Our Employees and Contractors. 
All employees and workers who are not employees but whose work or workplace is controlled by Wolfspeed are covered by our occupational health and safety management system.
Occupational Health and Safety (2018) 403-9 Work-related injuries. 
Health and Safety — Our Employees and Contractors. 
Sustainability Data. 
Occupational Health and Safety (2018) 403-10 Work-related ill health. 
Health and Safety — Our Employees and Contractors. 
Sustainability Data. 
Occupational Health and Safety (continued)
GRI CONTENT INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 110 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Labor/ Management Relations (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Code of Conduct*
Supplier Code of Conduct*
Includes supporting internal company policies.
Labor/ Management Relations (2016) 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes GRI Content Index Wolfspeed follows all minimum notice period reporting requirements as determined by applicable law.
Child Labor (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Code of Conduct*
Supplier Code of Conduct*
Child Labor (2016) 408-1. 
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor. 
GRI Content Index. 
We maintain hiring age restrictions and health and safety standards for both employees and employees of suppliers. Our Supplier Code of Conduct specifically prohibits the use of child labor in violation of local laws and regulations in the country or countries in which Wolfspeed does business. Based on available information, we do not have any operations or suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of child labor or young workers exposed to hazardous work.
Forced or Compulsory Labor (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Code of Conduct*
Supplier Code of Conduct*
Forced or Compulsory Labor (2016) 409-1. 
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor. 
GRI Content Index. 
We maintain standards prohibiting forced or compulsory labor for both employees and employees of suppliers. Our Supplier Code of Conduct specifically prohibits forced or compulsory labor by our suppliers. Based on available information, we do not have any operations or suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor.
Human Rights Assessment (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach Code of Conduct*
Per our Code of Conduct, Wolfspeed policies and procedures apply to all subsidiaries. If we maintain the majority of the ownership of joint ventures, its policies and procedures will closely mirror those of Wolfspeed.
Labor and Employment Practices. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 111 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Human Rights Assessment (2016) 412-1. 
Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments. 
GRI Content Index. 
Our North Carolina operations achieved Gold-level certification from the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) which included, among other CSR-related topics, an assessment of our Human Rights policies and practices. While this assessment occurred in early calendar year 2022, it evaluated our practices in general, including those in place in calendar year 2021, and thus we included it in this report.
Human Rights Assessment (2016) 412-2. 
Employee training on human rights policies or procedures. 
GRI Content Index. 
Human rights policies are outlined in our Code of Conduct. Annually, all employees are required to undergo Code of Conduct training.
Employees are also required to complete and acknowledge a number of compliance courses. The course topics vary from year to year, but regularly include human rights related subject matter. Training topics are assigned to employees based on their role within the company. The total number of hours devoted to this training is between 2 to 4 hours per employee (between 9,000 to 15,000 hours total).
Human Rights Assessment (2016) 412-3. 
Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. 
Code of Conduct*
Supplier Code of Conduct*
Purchase Order Terms and Conditions*
Our Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct, and Standard Purchase Order Terms and Conditions include human rights clauses. We require that any supplier that works with us follows our Supplier Code of Conduct. Wolfspeed is committed to abiding by human rights laws and expects our suppliers and vendors to do the same.
Labor and Employment Practices (continued)
GRI CONTENT INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 112 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Anti-corruption (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach Code of Conduct*
Anti-corruption (2016) 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption. 
GRI Content Index. 
Included in our Code of Conduct and associated training, which applies to all Wolfspeed operations, are specific policies directed to ensure compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and United Kingdom Bribery Act, among other anti-corruption statutes.
Anti-corruption (2016) 205-3. 
Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures. 
GRI Content Index. 
Our Code of Conduct contains our guidelines for ethical business practices, including bribery and corruption. Annually, employees are required to undergo Code of Conduct training. Employees are required to complete and acknowledge a number of compliance courses. The course topics vary from year to year, but regularly include anti-corruption related subject matter. Training topics are assigned to employees based on their role within the company. The total number of hours devoted to this training is between 2 to 4 hours per employee (between 9,000 to 15,000 hours total).
Anti-competitive Behavior (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach Code of Conduct*
Anti-competitive Behavior (2016) 206-1. 
Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices. 
GRI Content Index. 
In 2021, Wolfspeed did not have any legal actions regarding anti- competitive behavior or violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation.
Ethical Business Practices. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 113 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Procurement Practices (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Supply Chain. 
Supplier Code of Conduct*
Purchase Order Terms and Conditions*
Responsible Minerals Sourcing. 
California Proposition 65. 
Procurement Practices (2016) 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers. 
Sustainability Goals. 
Supply Chain. 
Wolfspeed is actively updating our process with select direct suppliers and second tier suppliers to obtain goods and services from local, small, and diverse suppliers across our supply chain. Our current tracking process identifies small and diverse businesses. Wolfspeed is updating our data in 2022 to allow us to report out on local business as well. We have developed a five year supply chain sustainability goal that drives improvements to our procurement policies that will demonstrate our commitment to responsible purchasing and supplier diversity.
Supplier Environmental Assessment (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Supplier Code of Conduct*
Purchase Order Terms and Conditions*
Supplier Environmental Assessment (2016) 308-1. 
New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. 
GRI Content Index. 
Wolfspeed expects all suppliers to make a clear commitment to environmental compliance through the Supplier Code of Conduct and the Standard Purchase Order Terms and Conditions.
Supplier Social Assessment (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Supplier Code of Conduct*
Purchase Order Terms and Conditions*
Supplier Social Assessment (2016) 414-1. 
New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. 
GRI Content Index. 
Through the Supplier Code of Conduct and the Standard Purchase Order Terms and Conditions, Wolfspeed expects all suppliers to make a clear commitment to social compliance including health and safety, labor and diversity, and ethical business practices.
Supply Chain/Sourcing Issues. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 114. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Customer Satisfaction No GRI Topic Available 103-1,2,3 Management approach Customer Satisfaction. 
Customer Health and Safety (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Health and Safety - Our Customers and Partners. 
Customer Satisfaction. 
Customer Health and Safety (2016) 416-1. 
Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories. 
Product Ecology. 
California Proposition 65. 
We maintain an active program to minimize harmful materials, including lead and cadmium, in our products. All changes that occur at our manufacturing sites undergo a Management of Change process. During this process, changes are assessed based on several criteria including whether the changes will affect product safety.
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Product Quality. 
No GRI Topic Available 103-1,2,3 Management approach Product Quality. 
Customer Satisfaction. 
Product Quality. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 115 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Intellectual Property. 
No GRI Topic Available 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Information Security 2021 Annual Report*
Licensing*
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Product Innovation. 
No GRI Topic Available 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Why Wolfspeed. 
Our Contributions to the UN SDGs. 
Product Sustainability. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Acceleration of Sustainable Technologies. 
No GRI Topic Available 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Why Wolfspeed. 
Product Sustainability. 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
Our Contributions to the UN SDGs. 
Intellectual Property Security (Cyber and Data Security)
Product Innovation. 
Acceleration of Sustainable Technologies. 
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 116 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com. 
GRI CONTENT INDEX. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Risk Management. 
No GRI Topic Available 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Risk Management. 
Business Continuity Management. 
TCFD Disclosures 2021 Annual Report*
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
International Trade Regulations. 
No GRI Topic Available 103-1,2,3 Management approach Global Trade Compliance. 
Material Topic GRI Standard GRI Standard Description Location Comments. 
Indirect Economic Impacts (2016) 103-1,2,3 Management approach. 
Expanding Capacity for Silicon Carbide. 
Community Engagement. 
Our Contributions to the UN SDGs. 
Indirect Economic Impacts (2016) 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported GRI Content Index. 
Based on GRI’s definition of infrastructure, we currently do not provide any infrastructure projects or provide any infrastructure-related projects.
Indirect Economic Impacts (2016) 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts. 
Expanding Capacity for Silicon Carbide. 
Community Engagement. 
Examples of our significant identified indirect economic impacts can be found in the Expanding Capacity for Silicon Carbide and Community Engagement sections of this report. We have not yet assessed the significance of our indirect economic impacts in the context of external benchmarks and stakeholder priorities.
Risk Management. 
International Trade Regulations. 
Contribution to Regional/Local Development. 
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 117 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com. 
SASB DISCLOSURES. 
SASB Topic SASB Code SASB Accounting Metric SASB Disclosure Location. 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions TC-SC-110a.1 (1) Gross global scope 1 emissions (2) Amount of total emissions from perfluorinated compounds (1) 360,118 metric tons CO2e (2) 77,340 metric tons CO2e. 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
Sustainability Data. 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions TC-SC-110a.2. 
Discussion of long-term and short- term strategy or plan to manage scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance against those targets. 
We disclose this information in various Sustainability Report sections and CDP Climate Change responses. 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
Sustainability Goals. 
TCFD Disclosures. 
CDP Climate Change*
Energy Management in Manufacturing TC-SC-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed (2) Percentage grid electricity (3) Percentage renewable (1) 1,482,504 gigajoules (2) 80% grid electricity (3) 1.1% renewable, estimated based on local utilities grid mix (0.8% directly renewable, due to standard product offering by energy supplier)
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
Sustainability Data. 
Water Management TC-SC-140a.1 (1) Total water withdrawn (2) total water consumed, percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress (1) 1,046 thousand cubic meters (2) 17% of water withdrawn, 14% of water consumed in High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress areas. 
Water Management. 
Sustainability Data. 
Waste Management TC-SC-150a.1 Amount of hazardous waste from manufacturing, percentage recycled (1) 1,987 metric tons (2) 23% of hazardous waste reclaimed, recycled, or recovered 0.1% of hazardous waste reclaimed, recycled, or recovered (does not include energy recovery)
Waste Management. 
Sustainability Data. 
Employee Health & Safety TC-SC-320a.1. 
Description of efforts to assess, monitor, and reduce exposure of employees to human health hazards. 
We disclose this information in our Sustainability Report and Code of Conduct. 
Health and Safety—Our Employees and Contractors. 
Code of Conduct*
Employee Health & Safety TC-SC-320a.2. 
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with employee health and safety violations. 
In 2021, Wolfspeed did not have any monetary losses or legal actions regarding employee health and safety violations. 
SASB Disclosures. 
SEMICONDUCTOR STANDARD


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 118 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com. 
SASB DISCLOSURES. 
SASB Topic SASB Code SASB Accounting Metric SASB Disclosure Location. 
Recruiting & Managing a Global & Skilled Workforce. 
TC-SC-330a.1. 
Percentage of employees that are (1) foreign nationals, and (2) located offshore. 
This information is unavailable because the company does not require employees to self-report visa status. 
SASB Disclosures. 
Product Lifecycle Management TC-SC-410a.2 Percentage of products by revenue that contain IEC 62474 declarable substances. 
Approximately 10.6% of our products sold in FY2021 by revenue contained IEC 62474 declarable substances. 
SASB Disclosures. 
Product Lifecycle Management TC-SC-410a.2. 
Processor energy efficiency at a system-level for: (1) servers (2) desktops (3) laptops. 
This metric is not relevant to any of our products sold in 2021 SASB Disclosures. 
Materials Sourcing TC-SC-440a.1 Description of the management of risks associated with the use of critical materials. 
We disclose this information in our Sustainability Report, Code of Conduct, Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy, Conflict Minerals Filing (Form SD), and California Proposition 65 Policy. 
Supply Chain. 
Responsible Minerals Sourcing. 
California Proposition 65. 
Conflict Minerals Filing (Form SD)*
Code of Conduct*
Intellectual Property Protection & Competitive Behavior. 
TC-SC-520a.1. 
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with anticompetitive behavior regulations. 
In 2021, Wolfspeed did not have any monetary losses or legal actions regarding anti-competitive behavior regulations. 
SASB Disclosures. 
Activity Metric TC-SC-000.A Total production We do not disclose confidential or competitively sensitive information SASB Disclosures. 
Activity Metric TC-SC-000.B Percentage of production from owned facilities. 
We do not disclose confidential or competitively sensitive information SASB Disclosures. 
SEMICONDUCTOR STANDARD


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 119. 
UN SDGs DISCLOSURES. 
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was adopted by all United Nations Member States and provides a shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future. The seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are an urgent call for action by all countries in a global partnership. We have reported on how the UN SDGs and their specific targets align with our business focus, strategy, and material issues. Refer to the Our Contributions to the UN SDGs section of this report for more information about how our business activities contribute to the UN SDGs.
SDG Relevant SDG Target Related Material Issue. 
Relevant Sections of this Report 1.2 By 2030, reduce at least by half the proportion of men, women, and children of all ages living in poverty in all its dimensions according to national definitions. 
Community Engagement (Local and Global) Community Engagement 2.1 By 2030, end hunger and ensure access by all people, in particular the poor and people in vulnerable situations, including infants, to safe, nutritious, and sufficient food all year round 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs, and entrepreneurship 3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water, and soil pollution and contamination. 
Occupational Health and Safety. 
Employee Attraction/ Development/Retention. 
Health and Safety— Our Employees and Contractors. 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 6.3 By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating dumping and minimizing release of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the proportion of untreated wastewater, and substantially increasing recycling and safe reuse globally. 
Water and Wastewater Management Water Management


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 120. 
UN SDGs DISCLOSURES. 
SDG Relevant SDG Target Related Material Issue. 
Relevant Sections of this Report 7.a By 2030, enhance international cooperation to facilitate access to clean energy research and technology, including renewable energy, energy efficiency, and advanced and cleaner fossil-fuel technology, and promote investment in energy infrastructure and clean energy technology. 
Acceleration of Sustainable Technologies. 
Product Innovation. 
Why Wolfspeed. 
Expanding Capacity for Silicon Carbide. 
Product Sustainability 8.4 Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and production and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with developed countries taking the lead 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities 10.2 By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic, and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion, or economic or other status. 
Employee Diversity and Equal Opportunity. 
Community Engagement (Local & Global)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion. 
Community Engagement 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse Waste Management Waste Management 13.2 Integrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies, and planning Climate Change. 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
TCFD Disclosures


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 121 * Can be found on cdp.net or wolfspeed.com. 
TCFD Recommended Disclosure TCFD Disclosure. 
Describe the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities. 
Our Board of Directors is responsible for all sustainability matters at Wolfspeed, including climate change, through our Governance and Nominations Committee. Further information about our Board’s oversight of sustainability can be found in the Sustainability Oversight section of this report.
Our CEO, who is also the Company’s President and a Board member, is also responsible for climate-related issues impacting the company because he has oversight of departments within Wolfspeed, including those that manage climate-related issues (e.g., environment, health and safety, sustainability, emergency management, product development, operations, etc.). More information about our CEO’s role with the Board of Directors can be found in the Board of Directors and Committee Composition section of this report and on our Board of Directors web page.
Sustainability-related information is presented to our Board of Directors at least once per year, which covers a range of topics, including environmental performance (GHG emissions/climate change, water, etc.) and social responsibility efforts.
Our Board of Directors also discusses climate change risks as important matters arise because our manufacturing facilities are not located in areas that are typically directly impacted by climate- related events (e.g., tropical storms, droughts, etc.). Indirectly, our Board discusses climate-related opportunities often, as our business, and more specifically our products, are designed to reduce energy usage, and therefore greenhouse gas emissions, which directly affect climate change. For example, our Board helps guide our business strategy, part of which focuses on the development of Silicon Carbide products that enable auto manufacturers to reach their goals of electric vehicle production and adoption around the world.
Our Board of Directors also help guide our Sustainability strategy, including goals and targets development. Refer to the Sustainability Goals section of this report for more information about our current sustainability goals and targets.
Governance. 
We are committed to transparency of our GHG emissions and climate-related risks and opportunities, and as a result, we are disclosing this information according to the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). These disclosures help describe our climate-related impacts and how we understand and manage climate-related risks and opportunities. Further information about our GHG emissions can be found in the Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions section of this report and in our CDP Climate Change* responses.
TCFD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 122. 
TCFD DISCLOSURES. 
TCFD Recommended Disclosure TCFD Disclosure. 
Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate- related risks and opportunities. 
Our Board of Directors is responsible for all sustainability matters at Wolfspeed, including climate change, through our Governance and Nominations Committee. Further information about our Board’s oversight of sustainability can be found in the Sustainability Oversight section of this report. Sustainability-related information is presented to our Board of Directors at least once per year by our Senior Vice President of Legal & General Counsel, which covers a range of topics including environmental performance (GHG emissions/climate change, water, etc.) and social responsibility efforts.
The sustainability group with responsibility for climate-related issues, and that develops sustainability and climate- related content to be presented to the Board of Directors, consists of Wolfspeed employees from various departments including Environment, Health and Safety, Corporate Sales, and Marketing and Legal. When relevant, we also engage with employees from the Operations and Investor Relations departments. Our Legal and Corporate Sales and Marketing departments report directly to the CEO. Our Environment, Health and Safety department reports to the Operations department, which reports to the CEO. Our Investor Relations group reports to the Finance department, which reports to the CEO.
The titles of employees involved in the group include the Senior Vice President of Legal & General Counsel; Vice President Legal & Chief Compliance Officer; Vice President Corporate Marketing; Global Environment, Health & Safety Director; and Sustainability Engineer. Climate-related issues are monitored by this committee because it is a multi-disciplinary group that represents all of Wolfspeed’s business units (Power and Radio Frequency) and provides different perspectives on how climate change could potentially affect Wolfspeed’s product sales and financial performance, reputation, direct operations and supply chain. On a day-to-day basis, the individuals of this committee work with their departments to address climate-related issues. For example, our Environment, Health & Safety department is responsible for various corporate sustainability initiatives and compliance with health, safety, and environmental regulations.
Governance (continued)


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 123. 
TCFD DISCLOSURES. 
TCFD Recommended Disclosure TCFD Disclosure. 
Describe the climate- related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short-, medium-, and long-term. 
Our climate-related risks and opportunities over the short-, medium-, and long-term can be found in the Our Climate Change Risks and Our Climate Change Opportunities subsection. The risks and opportunities reported here refer to those that could have a substantive financial or strategic impact to our business.
We define a substantive financial or strategic impact as something that will cause significant impact to our business both internally (i.e., our direct operations) or externally (i.e., our upstream and downstream value chain). We use $1million USD to establish a threshold for substantive financial impact when determining potential impacts due to climate change.
Our short-term horizon was chosen to be 0-1 years because our budgets are currently established on a shorterterm timeframe. Our medium-term horizon was chosen to be 1-10 years based on our anticipated timeline for our current capacity expansion efforts that are planned to be completed in 2024. Our long-term horizon of 10-100 years is not currently aligned with other business practice time horizons.
Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning. 
We have reviewed various stages of our value chain to understand how our climate-related risks and opportunities have influenced or could potentially influence our strategy. This information can be found in the How ClimateRelated Risks and Opportunities Have Influenced Our Strategy subsection.
We have reviewed various financial elements to understand how our climate-related risks and opportunities have influenced or could potentially influence our financial planning and strategy. This information can be found in the How Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities Have Influenced Our Financial Planning subsection.
We consider different risk types when understanding and determining our climate-related risks. This information can be found in the What We Consider When Determining Our Climate-Related Risks subsection.
We have used a qualitative climate-related scenario analysis to better understand how climate change could potentially affect our business and strategy. This information can be found in the Our Climate- Related Scenario Analysis: IRENA subsection.
Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario. 
We have used a qualitative climate-related scenario analysis to better understand how climate change could potentially affect our business and strategy. This information can be found in the Our Climate- Related Scenario Analysis: IRENA subsection.
Strategy


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 124. 
TCFD Recommended Disclosure TCFD Disclosure. 
Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate- related risks. 
Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate- related risks. 
Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate- related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management. 
Direct Operations:
Risk management at Wolfspeed is a process undertaken by all functions within the business, including a review of risks related to financial and market performance, operational performance, emergency preparedness and response, environment, health and safety compliance, among other areas. Wolfspeed assesses and prioritizes risks based on impacts to our business and products, our employees, the communities in which we operate, and our customers. Wolfspeed also assesses and prioritizes risks based on regulatory impacts. In addition, Wolfspeed has established a formal Enterprise Risk Management program in order to identify, assess, prioritize and manage key enterprise risks. Climate-related risks and opportunities are discussed and addressed as part of this program.
Our Finance, Internal Audit, Legal, and Investor Relations departments identify and assess both domestic and international business risks, financial risks, and market risks. These risks, as well as environmental compliance risks, are reviewed as part of financial disclosure requirements (e.g., US SEC Form 10-K). Situationally, departments including Environment, Health and Safety, Corporate Sales and Marketing, Legal, Operations, and Investor Relations, among others, assess Wolfspeed-specific physical and transitional risks and opportunities due to climate change. Potential physical climate change risks to major facilities have been reviewed, including sea level rise flooding, susceptibility to and preparation for high intensity storms, increased rainfall, drought, and water stress and availability. Both company-level and asset-level physical and transitional risks have been considered. We have also considered raw material sourcing issues, and distribution channel impacts that could result from global climate-related impacts. We use $1 million USD to establish a threshold for substantive financial impact when determining potential impacts due to climate change.
Wolfspeed uses a materiality assessment to review and prioritize sustainability topics, including corporate governance, products, environmental protection (including climate change), social responsibility, and economic performance. Wolfspeed’s top management have been interviewed to discuss which aspects are most relevant for Wolfspeed’s future success. We also conducted outreach to external stakeholders (e.g., customers, suppliers) to understand which aspects they believe are most important for Wolfspeed’s future success. The results from the materiality assessment guide us toward which areas to focus on in the future.
Wolfspeed’s Environment, Health & Safety department is responsible for maintaining our ISO 14001 certifications. Wolfspeed’s ISO 14001 environmental management systems involve assessing environmental impacts of our manufacturing operations, including those that impact or are impacted by climate change. ISO 14001 defines an environmental aspect as an element of an organization’s activities, products, or services that has or may have an impact on the environment. Our significant impacts for each site covered under an ISO 14001 certification are determined using a ranking system. Each environmental aspect (e.g., greenhouse gas emissions, energy usage) is ranked from 0 through 4 based on each of the following criteria: severity, magnitude, probability, frequency, controllability, duration, employee concerns, community concerns, boundaries, business impact, and regulatory. Each aspect receives a total score and the highest scores designate what our significant impacts are, which we focus on in more detail in our environmental management systems.
We have established corporate-wide goals to manage climate-related risks. Our sustainability goals include a climate change-related target of reducing scope 1 and 2 emissions by 50% by 2030 relative to a base year of 2019. We also established a long-term goal of reducing scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with the Paris Agreement to further reduce our climate impact in support of limiting warming to 1.5°C and transitioning to a net-zero carbon economy. Refer to the Sustainability Goals section of this report for more information about our current sustainability goals and targets.
Risk Management. 
TCFD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 125. 
TCFD Recommended Disclosure TCFD Disclosure. 
Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate- related risks (continued)
Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate- related risks (continued)
Describe how processes for identifying, a ssessing, and managing climate- related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management (continued)
Upstream:
Situationally, departments including Environment, Health & Safety, Corporate Sales and Marketing, Legal, Operations (Procurement), and Investor Relations, among others, assess Wolfspeed specific physical and transitional risks and opportunities due to climate change. During our climate-related risk assessments, we have considered the affect climate change could have on the suppliers of our raw materials. We rely on global suppliers for raw materials, who depending on their location, may be subject to various supply constraints, including those due to climate change. In an instance where Wolfspeed depends on a number of limited source suppliers for certain raw materials, components, services and equipment used in the manufacturing of our products, climate change- related risks could affect Wolfspeed. For example, chronic drought or flooding could increase instability in regions of the world that supply critical raw materials, causing business interruption. We use $1 million USD to establish a threshold for substantive financial impact when determining potential impacts due to climate change.
Wolfspeed also assesses upstream risks by calculating our upstream scope 3 GHG emissions, which helps us better understand our impact. Our Procurement department also manages both physical and transitional risks and opportunities in our supply chain. Our dedicated staff, Supplier Code of Conduct, Purchase Order Terms and Conditions, and Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy help Wolfspeed manage potential supply chain risks, including those associated with climate change. Where possible, Wolfspeed seeks to obtain goods and services from local suppliers in the locations where Wolfspeed conducts business, which helps to reduce our risk of business interruptions when climate-related issues may arise and lowers transportation emission impacts.
Downstream:
Situationally, departments including Environment, Health & Safety, Corporate Sales and Marketing, Legal, Operations, and Investor Relations, among others, assess Wolfspeed-specific physical and transitional risks and opportunities due to climate change. During our climate-related risk assessments we have considered the affect climate change could have on our business downstream. We feel that climate change is a potential opportunity for us because our products are specifically designed to reduce energy consumption and GHG emissions compared to incumbent technologies. However, since climate-related events could cause delays in product distribution, there are commercial risks associated with delivering our products in a timely manner. We use $1 million USD to establish a threshold for substantive financial impact when determining potential impacts due to climate change.
Wolfspeed also assesses downstream risks by calculating our downstream scope 3 GHG emissions, which helps us better understand our impact. Our Corporate Sales and Marketing department manages Wolfspeed ’s climaterelated transitional risks and opportunities, including those related to our product sales, our reputation, market projections, and consumer preferences. Wolfspeed assesses market trends and technology advancements to suggest what our business focus should be. For example, we have shifted our strategic focus toward our semiconductor business due to the anticipated increased adoption of energy efficient technologies that use our products (e.g., renewable energy, electric vehicles).
Risk Management (continued)
TCFD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 126. 
TCFD Recommended Disclosure TCFD Disclosure. 
Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process. 
We calculate our scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse gas emissions annually to better understand our climate-related impacts. Our scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse gas emissions can be found in the Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sustainability Data sections of this report and in our CDP Climate Change* responses. More information about how our greenhouse gas emissions were calculated can be found in the GRI Content Index of this report. We use an independent third-party to perform a limited assurance verification of our scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse gas emissions. More information about the verification of our sustainability data can be found in the Independent Assurance Statement section of this report.
The products we produce and sell globally actually result in a net positive impact on climate change and we calculate this impact annually. Our Power and RF products sold in 2021 will save approximately 113 million MWh and 42 million metric tons CO2e over their estimated lifetimes compared to less efficient alternative products (e.g., silicon-based power products, silicon- or gallium arsenide-based RF products). More information about how these greenhouse gas emission savings were calculated can be found in the GRI Content Index of this report.
We have established corporate-wide goals to manage climate-related risks. Our sustainability goals include a climate change-related target of reducing scope 1 and 2 emissions by 50% by 2030 relative to a base year of 2019. We also established a long-term goal of reducing scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with the Paris Agreement to further reduce our climate impact in support of limiting warming to 1.5°C and transitioning to a net-zero carbon economy. More information about progress toward our climate change-related goals can be found in the Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sustainability Data sections of this report. Refer to the Sustainability Goals section of this report for more information about our current sustainability goals and targets.
Disclose scope 1, scope 2 and, if appropriate, scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and the related risks. 
We calculate our scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse gas emissions annually to better understand our climate-related impacts. Our scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse gas emissions can be found in the Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sustainability Data sections of this report and in our CDP Climate Change* responses. More information about how our greenhouse gas emissions were calculated can be found in the GRI Content Index of this report. We use an independent third-party to perform a limited assurance verification of our scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse gas emissions. More information about the verification of our Sustainability data can be found in the Independent Assurance Statement section of this report.
Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets. 
We have established corporate-wide goals to manage climate-related risks. Our sustainability goals include a climate change-related target of reducing scope 1 and 2 emissions by 50% by 2030 relative to a base year of 2019. We also established a long-term goal of reducing scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with the Paris Agreement to further reduce our climate impact in support of limiting warming to 1.5°C and transitioning to a net-zero carbon economy. More information about progress toward our climate change-related goals can be found in the Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sustainability Data sections of this report. Refer to the Sustainability Goals section of this report for more information about our current sustainability goals and targets.
Note: We retired our EP100 target in 2021 because we replaced it with our new climate change-related targets.
Metrics and Targets. 
TCFD DISCLOSURES * Can be found on cdp.net or wolfspeed.com


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 127. 
Potential Risk Time Horizon Potential Impacts Estimated Financial Implications Management Method. 
Carbon taxes Medium-term. 
Direct Operations:
Requires reduction in scope 1 emissions and potential addition of abatement technologies.
Difficult to alter manufacturing inputs since our products rely on the use of very specific inputs. Changing the types and amounts of gases used in our manufacturing processes could greatly compromise product quality.
Potential financial impact: $38-58 million annually. 
Potential cost of response: $6.6 million. 
Improving yield.
Increasing the size of our Silicon Carbide wafers produced, which yields more product per similar amount of input.
Currently exploring options for abatement at our facilities and began installing abatement devices at our Durham, NC and RTP, NC facilities.
Currently exploring a project to eliminate the use of one of our greenhouse gases with a high GWP. This project entered the testing phase 2020-2021. Testing was successful and is planned to be funded in the near future.
Fluctuating socio- economic conditions Short-term. 
Upstream (supply chain):
Many of our critical raw materials are sourced from areas of the world vulnerable to instability as a result of drought and other climate-related issues.
Severe cost to our supply chain and business interruption. The financial implications for this risk affecting our supply chain is currently unknown. Depending on the material, it could have a substantive impact (i.e., could be more than $1 million depending on the event).
Potential cost of response: $0. 
Our dedicated staff, Supplier Code of Conduct, and Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy help to manage potential risks in our supply chain. 
Unsuccessful investment in new technologies Medium-term. 
Downstream (customers):
Local utilities in some of the areas we operate are not adopting policies that promote the economical adoption of renewable energy sources. We also see a risk with utilities not upgrading their grid system to be able to accept and manage renewable energy. These issues affect continued adoption of our technologies.
The financial implications for this risk affecting our direct operations and product sales is currently unknown. However, we feel the impacts could be substantive (i.e., could be more than $1 million depending on the event).
Potential cost of response: $200,000. 
We have dedicated staff to manage our facilities’ electricity systems and interactions with local utilities and policy makers.
TCFD DISCLOSURES. 
Our Climate Change Risks


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 128. 
Potential Risk Time Horizon Potential Impacts Estimated Financial Implications Management Method. 
Water scarcity/ availability Medium-term. 
Direct Operations:
We require ultra-pure water for our manufacturing processes.
Water availability and quality issues due to climate change could affect our manufacturing operations and product quality.
Potential financial impact: $8-17 million annually. 
Potential cost of response: $10 million. 
Assessing our water risks using the WRI Aqueduct and WWF Risk Filter tools.
Assessing all facilities’ water stress using the WRI Aqueduct tool for current and future (2030 and 2040) water stress.
Currently operating water recycling systems at our Durham, NC facility.
Continuously explore options for water recycle improvements to help offset the expected increase in water usage as we expand.
TCFD DISCLOSURES. 
Our Climate Change Risks (continued)


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 129. 
Potential Risk Time Horizon Potential Impacts Estimated Financial Implications Management Method. 
Carbon taxes and product efficiency regulations and standards. 
Longterm. 
Downstream (customers):
We have always focused our priorities on improving the design and energy efficiency of our products. Our Power and Radio Frequency products substantially reduce the amount of customer energy consumption and associated GHGs emitted compared to incumbent technologies. If a carbon tax system is established in the future, we will be able to provide energy efficient, lessemissive, and long- lasting products to meet customer needs. Carbon taxes may also enable us to gain new customers seeking products that emit less GHGs to lower their carbon tax payments.
Potential financial impact: $1.5 billion annually (estimated FY2024 revenue)
Potential cost of response: $720 million over five years and approximately $177.8 million annually. 
In 2019, we announced plans to invest up to $720 million over five years in the expansion of our Silicon Carbide capacity, which will generate up to a 30-fold increase in Silicon Carbide wafer fabrication capacity and 30-fold increase in Silicon Carbide materials production. We also announced our plans to build a brand new, state-of-the-art, automotive- qualified 200mmcapable wafer fabrication facility in Marcy, NY, complemented by our materials factory expansion currently underway at our Durham, NC headquarters.
In addition, our research and development employees are responsible for developing energy efficient, long-lasting, and innovative products. We will continue to innovate for the future and develop industry-leading energy efficient products. We are constantly developing new technologies and creating new markets for our products. We invest significant resources in research and development ($177.8 million in fiscal year 2021). Research and development costs listed here for all our product types produced in 2021 (Materials, Power, and Radio Frequency).
Increased adoption of renewable energy. 
Medium- term. 
Downstream (customers):
We are transparent regarding product efficiency, and information about our products’ efficiency can be found on our website. Our Power products can also be used in renewable energy applications, including solar power systems. Solar power systems designed around our Silicon Carbide Power devices offer huge efficiency gains and permit smaller system size, weight, and cost.
Potential financial impact: $1.5 billion annually (estimated FY2024 revenue)
Potential cost of response: $720 million over five years and approximately $177.8 million annually. 
In 2019, we announced plans invest up to $720 million over five years in the expansion of our Silicon Carbide capacity, which will generate up to a 30-fold increase in Silicon Carbide wafer fabrication capacity and 30-fold increase in Silicon Carbide materials production. We also announced our plans to build a brand new, state-of-the-art, automotive- qualified 200mmcapable wafer fabrication facility in Marcy, NY, complemented by our materials factory expansion currently underway at our Durham, NC headquarters.
In addition, our research and development employees are responsible for developing energy efficient, long-lasting, and innovative products. We will continue to innovate for the future and develop industry-leading energy efficient products. We are constantly developing new technologies and creating new markets for our products. We invest significant resources in research and development ($177.8 million in fiscal year 2021). Research and development costs listed here are for all our product types produced in 2021 (Materials, Power, and Radio Frequency).
TCFD DISCLOSURES. 
Our Climate Change Opportunities


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 130. 
Potential Risk Time Horizon Potential Impacts Estimated Financial Implications Management Method. 
Changes in consumer behavior. 
Medium- term. 
Downstream (customers):
We may benefit from changes in consumer/ customer behavior because we have always focused our priorities on improving the design and energy efficiency of our products. We believe that our Power and Radio Frequency products appeal to the growing number of eco-conscious consumers and commercial customers who want energy efficient, less-emissive, and long- lasting products. We believe we will be able to meet the growing demand for energy efficient products resulting from changes in customer preferences..
Potential financial impact: $1.5 billion annually (estimated FY2024 revenue)
Potential cost of response: $720 million over five years and approximately $177.8 million annually. 
In 2019, we announced plans invest up to $720 million over five years in the expansion of our Silicon Carbide capacity, which will generate up to a 30-fold increase in Silicon Carbide wafer fabrication capacity and 30-fold increase in Silicon Carbide materials production. We also announced our plans to build a brand new, state-of-the-art, automotive- qualified 200mmcapable wafer fabrication facility in Marcy, NY, complemented by our materials factory expansion currently underway at our Durham, NC headquarters.
In addition, our research and development employees are responsible for developing energy efficient, long-lasting, and innovative products. We will continue to innovate for the future and develop industry-leading energy efficient products. We are constantly developing new technologies and creating new markets for our products. We invest significant resources in research and development ($177.8 million in fiscal year 2021). Research and development costs listed here are for all our product types produced in 2021 (Materials, Power, and Radio Frequency).
Use of more efficient modes of transport. 
Medium- term. 
Downstream (customers):
We foresee an increased demand for more efficient forms of transportation, including electric vehicles. Many automotive companies are increasingly investing in the electric vehicle market and our Power products can be used in electric vehicles. Our Silicon Carbide MOSFETs, for example, enable faster, more efficient charging and increase power density of the electric circuits. Our Silicon Carbide products allow electric vehicles to go farther, charge faster, and perform better.
Potential financial impact: $1.5 billion annually (estimated FY2024 revenue)
Potential cost of response: $720 million over five years and approximately $177.8 million annually. 
In 2019, we announced plans invest up to $720 million over five years in the expansion of our Silicon Carbide capacity, which will generate up to a 30-fold increase in Silicon Carbide wafer fabrication capacity and 30-fold increase in Silicon Carbide materials production. We also announced our plans to build a brand new, state-of-the-art, automotive- qualified 200mmcapable wafer fabrication facility in Marcy, NY, complemented by our materials factory expansion currently underway at our Durham, NC headquarters.
In addition, our research and development employees are responsible for developing energy efficient, long-lasting, and innovative products. We will continue to innovate for the future and develop industry-leading energy efficient products. We are constantly developing new technologies and creating new markets for our products. We invest significant resources in research and development ($177.8 million in fiscal year 2021). Research and development costs listed here are for all our product types produced in 2021 (Materials, Power, and Radio Frequency).
TCFD DISCLOSURES. 
Our Climate Change Opportunities (continued)


Our Climate-Related Scenario Analysis: IRENA. 
We reviewed climate-related scenarios listed in the CDP Climate Change survey and eliminated options that heavily relied on carbon sequestration as a technology that is not progressing as rapidly as the scenarios require.
Wolfspeed chose the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) scenario because we feel that it is a scenario that could reasonably occur in the future and because it promotes energy efficiency measures and increased adoption of renewable energy, which aligns with our business focus and strategy. We also chose the IRENA scenario because it is in line with limiting global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius and bringing GHG emissions to net zero by 2050. We assessed our strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats in the IRENA scenario for all Wolfspeed operations and our value chain on a ten-year timeframe because the IRENA climate-scenario considers CO2 emissions reductions by 2050. Even though IRENA is projected to 2050, the impacts within the next ten years are significant with existing technologies.
The main measurable factors built into the IRENA transition scenario that have a material impact on our business performance include energy efficient products, innovations, technologies, and use of renewables. The IRENA’s world energy transition outlook provides a range of assumptions concerning how the parameters are likely to develop, such as affordability of renewable technologies, availability of renewable options to end users and energy transition focused on renewables and efficient technologies with electrification and energy efficiency as primary drivers.
The results from the IRENA analysis reinforce our new strategy toward significant investment in our Power and Radio Frequency division. The market for energy efficient products (i.e., renewable energy, electric vehicles) is expected to expand, and our products are more efficient than existing technologies. The results of our IRENA scenario analysis include:
TCFD DISCLOSURES. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 131. 
Strengths. 
The energy efficiency impacts of our current products can help with the energy efficiency needs specified in the IRENA scenario. Developing energy efficient products is part of our everyday culture and what motivates our employees. Our products also allow for the development of other energy efficient products (e.g., renewable energy, electric vehicles). Our research and development drives innovation and speed to market for energy efficient products in the marketplace. We are vertically integrated which helps minimize our supply chain risks.
Weaknesses. 
Our planning processes are typically shorter than the ten year timeframe used in this analysis. Electricity is a large input to our manufacturing process and we currently only purchase renewable energy directly at our Morgan Hill, CA, facility, which represents a small amount compared to other Wolfspeed’s manufacturing sites’ electricity usage. Any use of renewable energy at our other facilities is based on our electric utilities’ energy mix.
Opportunities. 
Our products allow other industries to develop leading energy efficient products in applications such as renewable energy, wireless communication, electric vehicles, and electric vehicle charging. In the IRENA scenario, all these technology changes will be required to reduce CO2 emissions. Regulation in the form of carbon taxes could increase demand for our products and could offset increases in operational cost from the tax. In our operations, we could diversify our energy supply by implementing renewable energy at our sites to replace our current electricity from non- renewable sources. The increased adoption of energy efficient transportation will require increased electrification and improvements in the world’s current energy grid. The current state of our energy grid will not support the large anticipated shift to electric vehicle adoption, and we believe that our products can enable improvements in the energy grid.
Threats. 
It is possible that other more energy efficient technologies not yet developed could replace ours, putting our business at risk. If the impacts due to climate change worsen, Cree could experience supply chain disruptions due to extreme weather events and/or climate shifts. Energy grid capacity constraints could affect the adoption of new technologies that use our products.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 132. 
Value Chain Stage Description. 
Downstream: Products. 
Climate change opportunities have influenced our strategy regarding our products. Wolfspeed was founded upon the premise that our Silicon Carbide based technology for Power and Radio Frequency (RF) devices could fundamentally change the efficiency of energy use around the world. Our mission is to lead the innovation and commercialization of Silicon Carbide and gallium nitride, liberating designers to invent Power and wireless systems for a responsible, energy efficient future. Our Power and RF products allow other industries to develop leading energy efficient products in applications such as renewable energy, wireless communication, and electric vehicles. Our RF products help enable the transition to 5G, which requires the transmission of more data at faster speeds with greater precision. Smart cities, smart manufacturing, autonomous vehicles and connected transportation can all be realized through the availability of 5G. Our products can achieve the greater bandwidth and efficiency that 5G requires. We have always focused our priorities on improving the energy efficiency of our products, which in turn have a lower impact on the environment and climate change. The products we produce and sell globally actually result in a net positive impact on climate change. Our Power and RF products sold in 2021 will save approximately 113 million MWh and 42 million metric tons CO2e over their estimated lifetimes compared to less efficient alternative products (e.g., silicon-based power products, silicon- or gallium arsenidebased RF products). Time horizon: Short-term (0-1 year)
Upstream: Supply chain. 
Our climate change risks have influenced our strategy regarding our supply chain. Situationally, various departments including Environment, Health & Safety, Corporate Sales and Marketing, Legal, Operations, and Investor Relations, among others, assess Wolfspeed-specific physical and transitional risks and opportunities due to climate change. During our climate-related risk assessments, we have considered the affect climate change could have on the suppliers of our raw materials. We rely on global suppliers for raw materials who, depending on their location, may be subject to various supply constraints, including those due to climate change. In an instance where we depend on a number of limited source suppliers for certain raw materials, components, services and equipment used in the manufacturing of our products, climate change-related risks could affect Wolfspeed.
We also assess upstream supply chain risks by calculating our upstream scope 3 GHG emissions, which helps us better understand our impact. Our Purchasing division manages both physical and transitional risks and opportunities in our supply chain. Our dedicated staff, Supplier Code of Conduct, Purchase Order Terms and Conditions, and Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy help Wolfspeed manage potential supply chain risks, including those associated with climate change. Where possible, Wolfspeed seeks to obtain goods and services from local suppliers in the locations where we conduct business, which helps to reduce our risk of business interruptions when climate-related issues may arise and lowers transportation emission impacts. Time horizon: Short-term (0-1 year)
Direct Operations: Investment in R&D. 
Our climate change opportunities have influenced our strategy regarding our investment in R&D. Climate change is inherently integrated into our business objectives and strategy. We are a market-leading innovator of semiconductor products for Power and Radio Frequency applications. Wolfspeed was founded upon the premise that our Silicon Carbide-based technology for Power and Radio Frequency devices could fundamentally change the efficiency of electricity use around the world. We invest significant resources in R&D and our research and development employees are responsible for developing energy efficient, long-lasting, and innovative products. We will continue to innovate for the future and develop industry-leading energy efficient products. We are constantly developing new technologies and creating new markets for our products. Time horizon: Short-term (0-1 year) and medium-term (1-10 years)
How Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities Have Influenced Our Strategy. 
We have reviewed various stages of our value chain to understand how our climate-related risks and opportunities have influenced or could potentially influence our strategy.
TCFD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 133. 
Value Chain Stage Description. 
Direct Operations: Our Operations. 
Our climate change risks and opportunities have influenced our strategy regarding our operations. We have improved yield by increasing the size of the Silicon Carbide wafers produced, which yields more product per the same amount of input (e.g., electricity and GHGs used in the production process). Our manufacturing departments collect metrics for production and product mix, including energy efficiency and product yield. These metrics are then used to fuel internal decisions regarding process operations, product design, sales goals, etc. We have an incentive program to increase manufacturing yield, resulting in fewer wasted materials, lower usage of greenhouse gases in our manufacturing processes, and reduced costs.
We developed corporate sustainability goals, which include climate change-related goals to help further reduce our greenhouse gas impacts. Refer to the Sustainability Goals section of this report for more information about our current sustainability goals and targets.
The foreseen increased demand for energy efficient technologies like renewable energy and electric vehicles due to their impacts on energy efficiency and climate change further supports our focus and strategy. In 2019, we announced plans to invest up to $720 million in the expansion of our Silicon Carbide capacity, which will generate up to a 30-fold increase in Silicon Carbide wafer fabrication capacity and 30-fold increase in Silicon Carbide materials production. We also announced our plans to build a brand new, state-of-the-art, automotivequalified 200mm-capable wafer fabrication facility in Marcy, NY complemented by our materials factory expansion currently underway at our Durham, NC headquarters. The new fabrication facility will be a bigger, highly automated factory with greater output capability. More information about our expansion efforts can be found in the Expanding Capacity for Silicon Carbide section of this report.
We also use a materiality assessment to review and prioritize sustainability objectives. Product innovation (including improvements in energy efficiency) and energy efficiency of operations have been identified as two of the most important aspects by both internal and external stakeholders. More information about our materiality assessment can be found in the Materiality Assessment section of this report.
Our Environment, Health & Safety department also collects environmental metrics and works with other departments, including production and facilities, to ensure regulatory compliance and environmental operational efficiency.
Time horizon: Medium-term (1-10 years)
TCFD DISCLOSURES. 
How Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities Have Influenced Our Strategy (continued)


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 134. 
Financial Element Description. 
Revenue. 
Our identified risks have impacted our revenue financial planning in the short-term (0-1 year) since our risks are on a short-term or medium-term timeframe. Our climate change opportunities are impacted because we foresee an increase in demand for our Power and Radio Frequency products in the short-, medium-, and long-term. Our Power and Radio Frequency products greatly reduce power loss, resulting in less electricity wasted (and thus fewer GHGs emitted) compared to incumbent technologies. In 2021, these opportunities allowed us to reach a broader customer base and bring new products to market, contributing to an increase in our Power and Radio Frequency revenue. We anticipate our Power and Radio Frequency revenue could increase from $525.6 million in FY2021 to about $1.5 billion in FY2024.
Indirect costs. 
Our operating costs are currently established in our budgets on a short-term (0-1 year) and medium-term (1-10 years). Our identified risks have not yet greatly impacted our operating cost-planning process since our risks are on a short-term or medium-term timeframe. Our manufacturing operations heavily rely on the use of electricity. We have not seen major changes in fuel or electricity costs and do not anticipate major changes in the shortterm or medium-term. Since we foresee an increase in demand for our Power and Radio Frequency products, in 2021 and beyond we are targeting the conversion of the majority of our Wolfspeed Power production from 100mm to either 150mm or 200mm substrates. Because we aimed to make the transition in a cost-effective and timely manner, in many cases we relied on contractors for production capacity, logistics support, and certain administrative functions including hosting of certain information technology software applications. These added functions affect our operating costs.
Capital expenditures. 
Our opportunities have been factored into our capital expenditures planning, as we foresee an increase in demand for our energy efficient Power and Radio Frequency products and as a result plan to invest in expanding our operations in the short- term (0-1 year) and medium-term (1-10 years). Further investment in our Power and Radio Frequency division requires an increase in capital expenditures. At our existing sites, we have increased production capacity by adding new equipment and infrastructure to meet the increased demand for our products. In 2019, we announced plans invest up to $720 million in the expansion of our Silicon Carbide capacity, which will generate up to a 30-fold increase in Silicon Carbide wafer fabrication capacity and 30-fold increase in Silicon Carbide materials production to meet the expected market growth by 2024. We also announced our plans to establish a Silicon Carbide corridor on the East Coast of the United States with the creation of the world’s largest Silicon Carbide fabrication facility. Our plans include building a brand new, stateof-the-art, automotive-qualified 200mm-capable wafer fabrication facility in Marcy, NY, complemented by our materials factory expansion currently underway at our Durham, NC headquarters. The new fabrication facility will be a bigger, highly automated factory with greater output capability. In 2021, construction was nearing completion with a planned grand opening in April 2022. The plan enables 25% increased capacity with lower net capital expenditures. Our expansion plan marks Wolfspeed’s largest investment to date in fueling our Wolfspeed Silicon Carbide and gallium nitride on Silicon Carbide business.
How Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities Have Influenced Our Financial Planning. 
We have reviewed various financial elements to understand how our climate-related risks and opportunities have influenced or could potentially influence our financial planning.
TCFD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 135. 
Financial Element Description. 
Access to capital. 
Our identified climate change-related risks have positively impacted our access to capital since they are on a short-term (0-1 year) or medium-term (1-10 years) timeframe. We anticipate our climate change opportunities to be impacted because we foresee an increase in demand for our energy efficient Power and Radio Frequency products in the short-, medium- and long-term. In 2019, we announced plans to invest up to $720 million in the expansion of our Silicon Carbide capacity, which will generate up to a 30-fold increase in Silicon Carbide wafer fabrication capacity and 30-fold increase in Silicon Carbide materials production to meet the expected market growth by 2024. We also announced our plans to establish a Silicon Carbide corridor on the East Coast of the United States with the creation of the world’s largest Silicon Carbide fabrication facility. Our plans include building a brand new, state-of-the-art, automotive-qualified 200mm-capable wafer fabrication facility in Marcy, NY, complemented by our materials factory expansion currently underway at our Durham, NC headquarters. The new fabrication facility will be a bigger, highly automated factory with greater output capability. In 2021, construction was underway with a planned opening in April 2022. The plan enables 25% increased capacity with lower net capital expenditures. Our expansion plan marks the Wolfspeed’s largest investment to date in fueling our Wolfspeed Silicon Carbide and gallium nitride on Silicon Carbide business.
Acquisitions and divestitures. 
Our strategy includes acquisitions and divestments to streamline business focus on our core Materials, Power, and Radio Frequency divisions which lead Wolfspeed operations to more energy efficient future in the shortterm (0-1 year) and medium-term (1-10 years) timeframe. We are expanding our Power and Radio Frequency division due to increased demand, and in 2018 we acquired Infineon’s RF Power Business for approximately €345 million. This acquisition allows Wolfspeed’s wireless market opportunity to expand, especially in terms of positioning our products to enable faster 4G networks and being on the forefront of providing products to transition to 5G. To further our strategy to create a more focused, powerhouse semiconductor company, we divested our Lighting Products business unit in 2019 for approximately $310 million before tax impacts. In 2020, we announced the divestiture of our LED business unit for approximately $300 million; this sale was finalized in 2021. Both transactions have provided significant resources to help accelerate the growth of our Power and Radio Frequency division.
How Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities Have Influenced Our Financial Planning (continued)
TCFD DISCLOSURES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 136. 
Risk Type Description. 
Current regulation. 
Current regulation is relevant and has been included in our assessments. However, the current regulation that applies to Wolfspeed only requires reporting of greenhouse gas emissions to the United States EPA, which is done annually in accordance with such regulation. Our GHG emissions are included in our climate-related risk assessments, specifically when we discuss our risks associated with regulations that could emerge because of the data collected from United States EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program reporting requirements (e.g., carbon taxes, GHG emission threshold regulations). Through calculating emissions for EPA, we also assess our GHG emission impacts and how they compare to our competitors’ impacts. The data from United States EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program are available to the public. Having high direct GHG emissions per revenue or production can put us at a reputational risk for stakeholders like customers, investors, and organizations that rate/score us based on our ESG performance. Once assessed, these risks prompted the formalization and publication by Wolfspeed of its climate-related goals. We developed corporate sustainability goals, which include climate change-related goals to help further reduce our greenhouse gas impacts. We have two targets for reduction emissions. The first one is reduction of scope 1 and 2 emissions by 50% by 2030 relative to a base year of 2019. The second one is a long-term goal of reducing scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with the Paris Agreement to further reduce our climate impact in support of limiting warming to 1.5°C and transitioning to a net-zero carbon economy no later than 2050. Refer to the Sustainability Goals section of this report for more information about our current sustainability goals and targets.
Emerging regulation. 
We have considered emerging regulation as both a risk and opportunity in our climate-related risk assessments. For example, we have discussed how regulations assigning a cost of carbon would potentially impact our production costs and operations. We could reduce our scope 1 GHG emissions and reduce our carbon taxes by adding fluorinated gas abatement. We are currently exploring abatement technologies for our facilities and in 2020 and 2021 began installing abatement devices at our Durham, NC and RTP, NC facilities. We have also considered the potential impacts to Wolfspeed’s business due to the proposed EPA HFC-phasedown rule associated with the AIM Act (the rule was finalized later in 2021). It is more difficult to change manufacturing inputs since our products rely on the use of very specific inputs. Changing the types and amounts of gases used in our manufacturing processes could greatly compromise product quality. However, our Power and Radio Frequency products substantially reduce the amount of customer energy consumption and associated GHGs emitted. If a carbon tax system is established in the future, we will be able to provide energy efficient, less emissive, and long-lasting products to meet customer needs. Carbon taxes may also enable us to gain new customers seeking products that emit less GHGs to lower their carbon tax payments. Another example of emerging regulation is the SEC climate change disclosure proposal that would be required for public companies, including Wolfspeed, to disclose financial metrics in its audited financial statements and to comply with a phased-in assurance requirement on carbon emissions disclosures. We are monitoring this proposal to ensure our current and future climate change-related actions align with this pending regulation in its final form. Once assessed, these risks prompted the formalization and publication by Wolfspeed of its climate-related goals. We developed corporate sustainability goals, which include climate change-related goals to help further reduce our greenhouse gas impacts. We have two targets for reduction emissions. The first one is reduction of scope 1 and 2 emissions by 50% by 2030 relative to a base year of 2019. The second one is a long-term goal of reducing scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with the Paris Agreement to further reduce our climate impact in support of limiting warming to 1.5°C and transitioning to a net-zero carbon economy no later than 2050. Refer to the Sustainability Goals section of this report for more information about our current sustainability goals and targets.
TCFD DISCLOSURES. 
What We Consider When Determining Our Climate-Related Risks. 
Situationally, departments including Environment, Health & Safety, Corporate Sales and Marketing, Legal, Operations, and Investor Relations, among others, assess Wolfspeed-specific risks and opportunities due to climate change. We have reviewed various risk types along our value chain to better understand and determine our climate-related risks and opportunities.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 137. 
Risk Type Description. 
Acute physical. 
We have considered acute physical risks in our climate-related scenario analyses. Wolfspeed has assessed potential risks to major facilities due to climate change, including flooding from sea level rise, susceptibility to and preparation for high intensity storms, increased rainfall, drought, and water stress and availability. Acute physical risks are also incorporated into Wolfspeed’s business continuity plan, which takes into consideration potential risks that could cause a significant business interruption.
Chronic physical. 
We have considered chronic physical risks in our climate-related scenario analyses. We have assessed how shifts in climate could affect our facilities and supply chain in the long-term. For example, sea level rise could impact the ports used for shipment of raw materials and products around the world. Chronic physical risks are also incorporated into Wolfspeed’s business continuity plan, which takes into consideration potential risks that could cause a significant business interruption.
Legal. 
Various departments throughout Wolfspeed ensure we are maintaining compliance with all laws, including those related to climate change. To date, legal issues have not been a significant climate change risk or opportunity for Wolfspeed, however Wolfspeed continues to monitor future regulations as discussed in the emerging regulation section (e.g., we have discussed how regulations assigning a cost of carbon would potentially impact our production costs and operations, and have explored new projects to reduce the use of fluorinated gases with high GWPs in our manufacturing processes).
Technology. 
We have considered technology as both a risk and opportunity in our climate-related risk assessments. Through our energy efficient products, our success is tied in part to efforts to reduce product energy usage and resulting greenhouse gas emissions, which directly affect climate change. Our Power products enable other energy efficient technologies (e.g., renewable energy, electric vehicles) to develop, and we have discussed the risks associated with the timely adoption and scale of these technologies.
Market. 
We have considered market risks in our climate-related risk assessments. The market for energy efficient products affects our business because our products reduce product energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions, which directly affect climate change. Market projections impact our business greatly. As demand increases for energy efficient solutions, including electric vehicles, solar, and industrial processes, Wolfspeed must invest to grow our business to meet this demand. International Energy Agency reported in their “Global Electric Vehicle Outlook 2022” that in 2021 there were about 16.5 million electric cars on the world’s roads and sales keep rising. There are risks associated with production planning based on the market for energy efficient technologies. If we project too low, then we would not be able to meet demand and lose our competitive advantage. If we project demand to be too high, then we risk investing in unnecessary capital to develop our facilities.
Reputation. 
We have considered reputation in our climate-related risk assessments because our reputation is directly tied to producing products that reduce product energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions. We have considered risks from climate change and how they would affect customer satisfaction and our external reputation. We also have considered operational risks and how they affect our internal reputation with current and future employees. We also assess our GHG emission impacts and how they compare to our competitors’ impacts. The data from United States EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program and Sustainability Report are available to the public. Having high direct GHG emissions per revenue or production can put us at a reputational risk for stakeholders like customers, investors, and organizations that rate/ score us based on our ESG performance. Once assessed, these risks prompted the formalization and publication by Wolfspeed of its climate-related goals We developed corporate sustainability goals, which include climate change-related goals to help further reduce our greenhouse gas impacts. We have two targets for reduction emissions. The first one is reduction of scope 1 and 2 emissions by 50% by 2030 relative to a base year of 2019. The second one is a long-term goal of reducing scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with the Paris Agreement to further reduce our climate impact in support of limiting warming to 1.5°C and transitioning to a net-zero carbon economy no later than 2050. Refer to the Sustainability Goals section of this report for more information about our current sustainability goals and targets.
TCFD DISCLOSURES. 
What We Consider When Determining Our Climate-Related Risks (continued)


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 138 2019 2020 2021. 
Employees. 
Employees By Region [GRI 102-8] 3,158 3,845 4,975. 
North America 3,029 3,653 4,674. 
Europe 46 64 78. 
Asia 83 128 223. 
Employees By Employment Contract/Status1 [GRI 102-8] • 3,391 4,533. 
Full-Time/Part-Time • 2,987 4,438. 
Female • 875 1,339. 
Male • 2,112 3,099. 
Full-Time/Part-Time • 2,987 4,438. 
North America • 2,987 4,438. 
Temporary • 404 95. 
Female • 170 31. 
Male • 234 64. 
Temporary • 404 95. 
North America • 404 95. 
Employees by Employment Type1 [GRI 102-8] • 3,391 4,533. 
Full-Time • 3,360 4,498. 
Female • 1,029 1,352. 
Male • 2,331 3,146. 
Part-Time • 31 35. 
Female • 16 18. 
Male • 15 17. 
Countries Represented by Employees 72 77 71. 
Job Vacancies Filled by Current Employees (%) 26% 21% 20%
Number of New Hires1 [GRI 401-1] 872 741 1,614. 
By Region • 741 1,614. 
North America • 741 1,614. 
By Gender • 741 1,614. 
Female • 265 544. 
Male • 476 1,070. 
By Age • 741 1,614 <30 • 320 632 30-50 • 307 731 >50 • 114 251. 
SUSTAINABILITY DATA. 
EMPLOYEES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 139 2019 2020 2021. 
Employees. 
Parental Leave1 [GRI 401-3]
Employees Eligible for Parental Leave • 2,987 4,406. 
Female • 875 1,321. 
Male • 2,112 3,085. 
Employees Who Took Parental Leave • 82 101. 
Female • 20 18. 
Male • 62 83. 
Employees Who Returned to Work After Parental Leave • 80 87. 
Female • 19 16. 
Male • 61 71. 
Employees Who Were Still Employed 12 Months After Parental Leave • 74 67. 
Female • 17 9. 
Male • 57 58. 
Return to Work Rate for Employees Who Took Parental Leave • 97.6% 87.1%
Female • 95.0% 88.9%
Male • 98.4% 86.7%
Retention Rate for Employees Who Took Parental Leave • 90.2% 79.2%
Female • 85.0% 61.1%
Male • 91.9% 83.1%
Average Hours of Training per Year per Employee2 [GRI 404-1]
By Gender • • •
Female • • 7.70. 
Male • • 8.37. 
By Employee Category • • •
Administrative Support Workers • • 8.90. 
Craft Workers • • 8.00. 
Executive/Senior Level Officials and Managers • • 5.60. 
First/Mid Level Officials and Managers • • 8.19. 
Operatives • • 6.53. 
Professionals • • 10.61. 
Sales Workers • • 8.50. 
Service Workers • • 5.50. 
Technicans • • 8.27. 
SUSTAINABILITY DATA. 
EMPLOYEES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 140 2019 2020 2021. 
Board of Directors. 
Board of Directors by Gender [GRI 405-1] 100% 100% 100%
Female 33.3% 22.2% 22.2%
Male 66.7% 77.8% 77.8%
Board of Directors by Age [GRI 405-1] 100% 100% 100% <30 0% 0% 0% 30-50 0% 0% 11.1% >50 100% 100% 88.9%
Board of Directors by Ethnicity [GRI 405-1] 100% 100% 100%
American Indian or Alaska Native (Not Hispanic or Latino) 0% 0% 0%
Asian (Not Hispanic or Latino) 11.1% 11.1% 11.1%
Black or African American (Not Hispanic or Latino) 0% 11.1% 11.1%
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander (Not Hispanic or Latino) 0% 0% 0%
Hispanic or Latino (United States of America) 0% 0% 0%
Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 0% 0% 11.1%
White (Not Hispanic or Latino) 88.9% 77.8% 66.7%
Employee Occupational Health & Safety. 
Work-Related Fatalities [GRI 403-9] [GRI 403-10] 0 0 0. 
Hours Worked (millions of hours)3 [GRI 403-9] [GRI 403-10] 6.1 6.0 6.1. 
Recordable Work-Related Injuries and Ill Health Cases3,4 [GRI 403-9] [GRI 403-10] 47 32 40. 
Injury Cases 35 28 30. 
Ill Health Cases 12 4 10. 
Recordable Work-Related Injuries and Ill Health Rates3,5 [GRI 403-9] [GRI 403-10] 1.54 1.07 1.30. 
Injury Rates 1.15 0.94 0.98. 
Ill Health Rates 0.39 0.13 0.33. 
High-Consequence Recordable Work-Related Injuries and Ill Health Cases3,6 [GRI 403-9] [GRI 403-10] 6 4 2. 
Injury Cases 6 3 2. 
Ill Health Cases 0 1 0. 
High-Consequence Recordable Work-Related Injuries and Ill Health Rates3,4,5,6 [GRI 403-9] [GRI 403-10] 0.20 0.13 0.07. 
Injury Rates 0.20 0.10 0.07. 
Ill Health Rates 0.00 0.03 0.00. 
Employee Recordable Work-Related Injuries and Ill Health Rate Third-Party Verified (limited assurance) Yes Yes Yes. 
Contract Employee7 Occupational Health & Safety. 
Work-Related Fatalities [GRI 403-9] [GRI 403-10] 0 0 0. 
Recordable Work-Related Injuries and Ill Health Cases4 [GRI 403-9] [GRI 403-10] 0 5 0. 
Injury Cases 0 4 0. 
Ill Health Cases 0 1 0. 
High-Consequence Recordable Work-Related Injuries and Ill Health Cases6 [GRI 403-9] [GRI 403-10] 0 0 0. 
Injury Cases 0 0 0. 
Ill Health Cases 0 0 0. 
SUSTAINABILITY DATA. 
EMPLOYEES


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 141 2019 2020 2021. 
Energy Use. 
Total Energy Purchased [GRI 302-1] [SASB TC-SC-130a.1] MWh 393,406 385,537 411,807. 
Electricity purchased MWh 318,568 314,233 330,762. 
Other energy purchased MWh 74,838 71,303 81,045. 
Estimated Renewable Energy Purchased [GRI 302-1] [SASB TC-SC-130a.1] MWh 32,183 3,861 3,759. 
Direct purchase of renewable energy/carbon free for electricity (e.g., wind, solar, hydropower, and nuclear) MWh 2,024 2,224 2,513. 
Estimated renewable energy purchases based on local utilities' energy grid mix MWh 30,159 1,637 1,246. 
Estimated Other Carbon-Free (e.g., nuclear) Energy Purchased [GRI 302-1] [SASB TC-SC-130a.1] MWh 102,986 166,996 172,585. 
Estimated other carbon-free electricity purchased based on local utilities' energy grid mix or country-specific data when utility information is unavailable or unknown MWh 102,986 166,996 172,585. 
Estimated Non-Renewable Energy Purchased [GRI 302-1] [SASB TC-SC-130a.1] MWh 258,237 214,680 235,463. 
Estimated non-renewable electricity purchased based on local utilities' energy grid mix or country-specific data when utility information is unavailable or unknown MWh 183,398 143,376 154,418. 
Natural gas purchased MWh 74,416 70,835 80,352. 
Diesel purchased MWh 209 211 388. 
Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) purchased MWh 0 0 6. 
Gasoline purchased MWh 94 131 189. 
Propane gas purchased MWh 119 126 109. 
Heat, Steam, Cooling Purchased [GRI 302-1] MWh 0 0 0. 
Heat purchased MWh 0 0 0. 
Steam purchased MWh 0 0 0. 
Cooling purchased MWh 0 0 0. 
Energy Sold [GRI 302-1] MWh 0 0 0. 
Electricity sold MWh 0 0 0. 
Heat sold MWh 0 0 0. 
Steam sold MWh 0 0 0. 
Cooling sold MWh 0 0 0. 
Total Energy Purchased Third-Party Verified (limited assurance) Yes Yes Yes. 
SUSTAINABILITY DATA. 
ENVIRONMENT


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 142 2019 2020 2021. 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions. 
Scope 1 GHG Emissions (by GHG Type) [GRI 305-1] [SASB TC-SC-110a.1] [TCFD Metrics and Targets] metric tons CO2e 247,136 280,555 360,118. 
CO2 metric tons CO2e 13,574 12,937 14,716. 
CH4 metric tons CO2e 64 62 63. 
N2O metric tons CO2e 3,415 3,861 4,326. 
HFCs metric tons CO2e 11,646 14,068 15,318. 
PFCs metric tons CO2e 52,597 74,204 77,340. 
SF6 metric tons CO2e 131,877 152,708 220,205. 
NF3 metric tons CO2e 3,959 4,203 4,346. 
Fluorinated Heat Transfer Fluids (HTFs) metric tons CO2e 28,602 15,012 23,015. 
Refrigerants metric tons CO2e 1,401 3,500 790. 
Scope 1 GHG Emissions (by Facility) [GRI 305-1] [SASB TC-SC-110a.1] [TCFD Metrics and Targets] metric tons CO2e 247,136 280,555 360,118. 
Durham, NC, USA metric tons CO2e 104,162 103,312 98,382. 
RTP, NC, USA metric tons CO2e 125,059 166,154 245,246. 
Morgan Hill, CA, USA metric tons CO2e 17,484 9,524 15,336. 
Other Leased Facilities. 
Durham (warehouse), NC, USA metric tons CO2e 143 145 0. 
Sanford, NC, USA metric tons CO2e • 43 79. 
Albany, NY, USA metric tons CO2e 18 1,116 841. 
Utica, NY, USA metric tons CO2e • 8 8. 
Fayetteville, AR, USA metric tons CO2e 147 131 109. 
Mesa, AZ, USA metric tons CO2e 12 12 19. 
Shanghai, China metric tons CO2e 10 7 32. 
Shenzhen, China metric tons CO2e 8 17 22. 
Beijing, China metric tons CO2e 3 3 1. 
Chengdu, China metric tons CO2e • • 1. 
Hong Kong, China metric tons CO2e 47 47 5. 
Munich, Germany metric tons CO2e 9 9 12. 
Kista, Sweden metric tons CO2e 10 10 10. 
Oulu, Finland metric tons CO2e 12 1 1. 
Tokyo, Japan metric tons CO2e 3 7 7. 
Suwon, South Korea metric tons CO2e 2 2 2. 
Penang, Malaysia metric tons CO2e 2 3 0. 
Taipei, Taiwan metric tons CO2e 5 1 3. 
Gurgaon, India metric tons CO2e 2 2 1. 
Scope 2 (Location-Based) GHG Emissions [GRI 305-2] [TCFD Metrics and Targets] metric tons CO2e 116,087 111,199 97,512. 
Durham, NC, USA metric tons CO2e 98,855 93,804 83,357. 
RTP, NC, USA metric tons CO2e 14,634 14,454 11,993. 
Morgan Hill, CA, USA metric tons CO2e 0 391 517. 
SUSTAINABILITY DATA. 
ENVIRONMENT


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 143 2019 2020 2021. 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions. 
Other Leased Facilities. 
Durham (warehouse), NC, USA metric tons CO2e 516 590 0. 
Sanford, NC, USA metric tons CO2e • 174 200. 
Albany, NY, USA metric tons CO2e 57 50 46. 
Utica, NY, USA metric tons CO2e • 23 25. 
Fayetteville, AR, USA metric tons CO2e 791 636 578. 
Mesa, AZ, USA metric tons CO2e 87 79 101. 
Shanghai, China metric tons CO2e 139 82 345. 
Shenzhen, China metric tons CO2e 108 195 93. 
Beijing, China metric tons CO2e 35 29 11. 
Chengdu, China metric tons CO2e • • 13. 
Hong Kong, China metric tons CO2e 601 496 51. 
Munich, Germany metric tons CO2e 75 57 68. 
Kista, Sweden metric tons CO2e 4 4 4. 
Oulu, Finland metric tons CO2e 55 4 3. 
Tokyo, Japan metric tons CO2e 22 51 49. 
Suwon, South Korea metric tons CO2e 17 14 16. 
Penang, Malaysia metric tons CO2e 13 23 0. 
Taipei, Taiwan metric tons CO2e 48 13 29. 
Gurgaon, India metric tons CO2e 31 29 16. 
Scope 2 (Market-Based) GHG Emissions [GRI 305-2] [TCFD Metrics and Targets] metric tons CO2e 85,883 81,591 88,685. 
Durham, NC, USA metric tons CO2e 72,665 68,665 76,106. 
RTP, NC, USA metric tons CO2e 10,757 10,581 10,950. 
Morgan Hill, CA, USA metric tons CO2e 0 0 0. 
Other Leased Facilities. 
Durham (warehouse), NC, USA metric tons CO2e 379 432 0. 
Sanford, NC, USA metric tons CO2e • 127 183. 
Albany, NY, USA metric tons CO2e 57 50 46. 
Utica, NY, USA metric tons CO2e • 23 25. 
Fayetteville, AR, USA metric tons CO2e 791 636 578. 
Mesa, AZ, USA metric tons CO2e 87 79 101. 
Shanghai, China metric tons CO2e 139 82 345. 
Shenzhen, China metric tons CO2e 108 195 93. 
Beijing, China metric tons CO2e 35 29 11. 
Chengdu, China metric tons CO2e • • 13. 
Hong Kong, China metric tons CO2e 601 496 51. 
Munich, Germany metric tons CO2e 75 57 68. 
Kista, Sweden metric tons CO2e 4 4 4. 
Oulu, Finland metric tons CO2e 55 4 3. 
Tokyo, Japan metric tons CO2e 22 51 49. 
SUSTAINABILITY DATA. 
ENVIRONMENT


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 144 2019 2020 2021. 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions. 
Suwon, South Korea metric tons CO2e 17 14 16. 
Penang, Malaysia metric tons CO2e 13 23 0. 
Taipei, Taiwan metric tons CO2e 48 13 29. 
Gurgaon, India metric tons CO2e 31 29 16. 
Scope 3 GHG Emissions [GRI 305-3] [TCFD Metrics and Targets] metric tons CO2e 219,594,362 181,873,179 196,793,943. 
Purchased goods and services metric tons CO2e 1,226,573 2,454,354 1,604,545. 
Capital goods metric tons CO2e 269,079 317,591 368,177. 
Fuel-and-energy-related activities not included in scope 1 or 2 metric tons CO2e 40,064 37,737 43,056. 
Upstream emissions of purchased fuels metric tons CO2e 934 2,289 2,611. 
Upstream emissions of purchase electricity metric tons CO2e 30,222 27,036 35,010. 
Transmission and distribution losses metric tons CO2e 8,909 8,412 5,435. 
Upstream transportation and distribution metric tons CO2e 5,534 5,926 3,981. 
Waste generated in operations, including disposal and transportation of waste metric tons CO2e 1,486 2,670 2,353. 
Business travel metric tons CO2e 2,997 551 449. 
Employee commuting metric tons CO2e 507 1,278 1,033. 
Downstream transportation and distribution metric tons CO2e 1,368 1,436 575. 
Processing of sold products metric tons CO2e • • •
Use of sold products metric tons CO2e 218,000,000 179,000,000 194,700,000. 
End of life treatment of sold products metric tons CO2e 10 11 9. 
Upstream leased assets metric tons CO2e Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant. 
Downstream leased assets metric tons CO2e Included in scope 1, 2 Included in scope 1, 2 Included in scope 1, 2. 
Franchises metric tons CO2e Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant. 
Investments metric tons CO2e Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant. 
Other (upstream contract manufacturers) metric tons CO2e Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant. 
Other (downstream contract manufacturers) metric tons CO2e 6,679 13,889 26,708. 
GHG Savings [GRI 305-5] metric tons CO2e 140,013,111 125,013,716 42,023,318. 
Process optimizations, product mix changes (scope 1) metric tons CO2e 6,641 • •
Electricity optimizations (scope 2) metric tons CO2e 5,600 7,508 3,822. 
New eGRID emission factors (scope 2) metric tons CO2e 847 6,200 19,461. 
Use of sold products compared to incumbent technologies (scope 3)8 metric tons CO2e 140,000,000 125,000,000 42,000,000. 
Employee use of EV charging stations at owned facilities (scope 3) metric tons CO2e 22.9 17.4 34.6. 
Global Warming Potentials Used [GRI 305-1][GRI 305-2][GRI 305-3] metric tons CO2e IPCC AR4 100 year IPCC AR4 100 year IPCC AR4 100 year. 
CDP Climate Change Scores metric tons CO2e B B B. 
Total Scope 1, 2, 3 Emissions Third-Party Verified (limited assurance) metric tons CO2e Yes, scope 3 partial Yes, scope 3 partial Yes, scope 3 partial. 
SUSTAINABILITY DATA. 
ENVIRONMENT


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 145 2019 2020 2021. 
Other Air Emissions. 
Particulate Matter (PM) [GRI 305-7] metric tons 2.2 2.4 2.1. 
Durham, NC, USA metric tons 1.8 1.8 1.7. 
RTP, NC, USA metric tons 0.4 0.6 0.4. 
Morgan Hill, CA, USA metric tons <0.01 0.02 0.01. 
Other Leased Facilities metric tons 0.03 0.03 0.01. 
Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) [GRI 305-7] metric tons 45.2 35.0 28.1. 
Durham, NC, USA metric tons 42.3 32.3 25.6. 
RTP, NC, USA metric tons 2.5 2.1 2.1. 
Morgan Hill, CA, USA metric tons 0.03 0.2 0.1. 
Other Leased Facilities metric tons 0.4 0.3 0.2. 
Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) [GRI 305-7] metric tons 0.12 0.12 0.16. 
Durham, NC, USA metric tons 0.10 0.11 0.15. 
RTP, NC, USA metric tons 0.01 0.01 0.01. 
Morgan Hill, CA, USA metric tons <0.01 <0.01 0.0008. 
Other Leased Facilities metric tons <0.01 <0.01 0.00. 
Carbon Monoxide (CO) [GRI 305-7] metric tons 16.0 12.3 13.7. 
Durham, NC, USA metric tons 14.1 10.6 12.0. 
RTP, NC, USA metric tons 1.5 1.3 1.4. 
Morgan Hill, CA, USA metric tons 0.02 0.2 0.1. 
Other Leased Facilities metric tons 0.3 0.3 0.21. 
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) [GRI 305-7] metric tons 33.3 41.9 26.9. 
Durham, NC, USA metric tons 20.3 26.6 14.9. 
RTP, NC, USA metric tons 10.7 11.2 11.5. 
Morgan Hill, CA, USA metric tons 2.1 1.3 0.1. 
Other Leased Facilities metric tons 0.2 2.8 0.4. 
Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP)9 [GRI 305-7] metric tons 7.2 8.7 9.9. 
Durham, NC, USA metric tons 5.9 6.7 8.1. 
RTP, NC, USA metric tons 1.3 1.6 1.8. 
Morgan Hill, CA, USA metric tons <0.01 <0.01 0.003. 
Other Leased Facilities metric tons 0.01 0.4 0.01. 
Toxic Air Pollutants9 [GRI 305-7] metric tons 7.8 9.2 10.7. 
Durham, NC, USA metric tons 6.1 6.5 8.2. 
RTP, NC, USA metric tons 1.7 2.0 2.5. 
Morgan Hill, CA, USA metric tons <0.01 <0.01 0.003. 
Other Leased Facilities metric tons <0.01 0.7 0.0. 
SUSTAINABILITY DATA. 
ENVIRONMENT


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 146 2019 2020 2021. 
Water Use. 
Water Withdrawals (by Facility) [GRI 303-3] [SASB TC-SC-140a.1] million gallons 227.3 255.5 276.4. 
Durham, NC, USA million gallons 180.8 205.2 226.4. 
Third-Party Water million gallons 180.7 205.1 224.7. 
Fresh Surface Water (Rainwater) million gallons 0.06 0.06 1.75. 
RTP, NC, USA million gallons 46.1 49.1 45.7. 
Third-Party Water million gallons 46.1 49.1 45.7. 
Fresh Surface Water (Rainwater) million gallons 0 0 0. 
Morgan Hill, CA, USA million gallons 0.3 0.3 0.3. 
Third-Party Water million gallons 0.3 0.3 0.3. 
Fresh Surface Water (Rainwater) million gallons 0 0 0. 
Other Leased Facilities million gallons • 0.9 4.0. 
Third-Party Water million gallons • 0.9 4.0. 
Fresh Surface Water (Rainwater) million gallons • • •
Water Recycled (by Facility) million gallons 49.7 49.7 46.5. 
Durham, NC, USA million gallons 49.7 49.7 46.5. 
RTP, NC, USA million gallons 0 0 0. 
Morgan Hill, CA, USA million gallons 0 0 0. 
Other Leased Facilities million gallons • • • % Water Recycling Rate % 18% 16% 14%
Water Discharges (Third-Party Waste Water) (by Facility) [GRI 303-4] million gallons 142.8 186.4 184.7. 
Durham, NC, USA million gallons 105.3 145.0 147.7. 
RTP, NC, USA million gallons 37.2 40.2 32.6. 
Morgan Hill, CA, USA million gallons 0.3 0.3 0.3. 
Other Leased Facilities million gallons • 0.9 4.0. 
Water Consumed (by Facility) [GRI 303-5] [SASB TC-SC-140a.1] million gallons 84.4 69.1 91.7. 
Durham, NC, USA million gallons 75.5 60.1 78.7. 
RTP, NC, USA million gallons 8.9 8.9 13.1. 
Morgan Hill, CA, USA million gallons 0 0 0. 
Other Leased Facilities million gallons • 0 0. 
SUSTAINABILITY DATA. 
ENVIRONMENT


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 147 * Can be found on wolfspeed.com. 
SUSTAINABILITY DATA. 
ENVIRONMENT 2019 2020 2021. 
Water Use. 
Water Withdrawals (by Water Stress Regions)10 [GRI 303-3] [SASB TC-SC-140a.1] million gallons 227.3 255.5 276.4. 
Third-Party Water million gallons 227.2 255.4 274.6. 
Low Water Stress million gallons 0.3 1.1 4.2. 
Low-Medium Water Stress million gallons 226.9 0.004 0.011. 
Medium-High Water Stress million gallons 0.0 205.1 224.7. 
High Water Stress million gallons 0 49.2 45.7. 
Extremely High Water Stress million gallons 0 0.007 0.018. 
Surface Water (Rainwater) million gallons 0.06 0.06 1.75. 
Low Water Stress million gallons 0 0 0. 
Low-Medium Water Stress million gallons 0.06 0 0. 
Medium-High Water Stress million gallons 0 0.06 1.75. 
High Water Stress million gallons 0 0 0. 
Extremely High Water Stress million gallons 0 0 0. 
Water Recycled (by Water Stress Regions)10 million gallons 49.7 49.7 46.5. 
Low Water Stress million gallons 0 0.0 0.0. 
Low-Medium Water Stress million gallons 49.7 0 0. 
Medium-High Water Stress million gallons 0.0 49.7 46.5. 
High Water Stress million gallons 0 0 0. 
Extremely High Water Stress million gallons 0 0 0. 
Water Discharges (Third-Party Waste Water) (by Water Stress Regions)10 [GRI 303-4] million gallons 142.8 186.4 184.7. 
Low Water Stress million gallons 0.3 1.1 4.2. 
Low-Medium Water Stress million gallons 142.5 0.004 0.011. 
Medium-High Water Stress million gallons 0.0 145.0 147.7. 
High Water Stress million gallons 0 40.3 32.7. 
Extremely High Water Stress million gallons 0 0.007 0.018. 
Water Consumed (by Water Stress Regions)10 [GRI 303-5] [SASB TC-SC-140a.1] million gallons 84.4 69.1 91.7. 
Low Water Stress million gallons 0 0.0 0.0. 
Low-Medium Water Stress million gallons 84.4 0 0. 
Medium-High Water Stress million gallons 0.0 60.1 78.7. 
High Water Stress million gallons 0 8.9 13.1. 
Extremely High Water Stress million gallons 0 0 0. 
CDP Water Security Scores • C B. 
Water Data Third-Party Verified (limited assurance) Partial Partial Partial. 
Total Water Withdrawals Yes Yes Yes. 
Total Water Recycled No No No. 
Total Water Discharges No No No. 
Total Water Consumption No No No


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 148. 
SUSTAINABILITY DATA. 
ENVIRONMENT 2019 2020 2021. 
Waste Management. 
Total Waste [GRI 306-3] [GRI 306-4] [GRI 306-5] thousand pounds 12,172 13,082 12,041. 
Reuse thousand pounds 582 487 312. 
Recycle thousand pounds 2,692 2,451 1,910. 
Composting thousand pounds 63 34 25. 
Recovery, Including Energy Recovery thousand pounds 2,525 2,037 1,422. 
Incineration thousand pounds 89 187 325. 
Landfill thousand pounds 1,935 3,242 2,721. 
Wastewater Treated thousand pounds 4,287 4,644 5,325. 
Hazardous Waste [GRI 306-3] [GRI 306-4] [GRI 306-5] [SASB TC-SC-150a.1] thousand pounds 3,795 4,194 4,381. 
Reuse thousand pounds 0 0 0. 
Recycle thousand pounds 0 2 4. 
Composting thousand pounds 0 0 0. 
Recovery, Including Energy Recovery thousand pounds 1,521 1,185 985. 
Incineration thousand pounds 79 170 310. 
Landfill thousand pounds 227 147 200. 
Wastewater Treated thousand pounds 1,968 2,690 2,882. 
Non-Hazardous Waste (not including solid waste) [GRI 306-3] [GRI 306-4] [GRI 306-5] thousand pounds 4,080 3,574 3,512. 
Reuse thousand pounds 582 487 312. 
Recycle thousand pounds 0 9 12. 
Composting thousand pounds 0 0 0. 
Recovery, Including Energy Recovery thousand pounds 1,004 852 437. 
Incineration thousand pounds 10 17 15. 
Landfill thousand pounds 166 254 292. 
Wastewater Treated thousand pounds 2,319 1,954 2,444. 
Solid Waste [GRI 306-3] [GRI 306-4] [GRI 306-5] thousand pounds 4,297 5,314 4,148 % Solid Waste Diversion from Landfill [GRI 306-4] % 64.1% 46.6% 46.3%
Reuse thousand pounds 0 0 0. 
Recycle thousand pounds 2,692 2,440 1,894. 
Composting thousand pounds 63 34 25. 
Recovery, Including Energy Recovery thousand pounds 0 0 0. 
Incineration thousand pounds 0 0 0. 
Landfill thousand pounds 1,542 2,840 2,229. 
Wastewater Treated thousand pounds 0 0 0. 
Waste Data Third-Party Verified (limited assurance) Partial Partial Partial. 
Total Waste Yes Yes Yes. 
Total Hazardous Waste No No No. 
Total Non-Hazardous Waste No No No. 
Total Solid Waste No No No


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 149. 
Clicking on the titles of all graphs and charts throughout this report will direct you to the Sustainability Data section.
In 2021, we divested our LED business unit operations, which included a facility in Huizhou, China. Except for scope 3 emissions, the environmental data presented in this report for years prior 2021 exclude this facility so that we can establish a new baseline around our Power and Radio Frequency operations. The employee data presented in this report for years prior 2021 also excludes employees associated with LED operations.
Unless otherwise noted in the Sustainability Data Footnotes, data presented in this report is for all our global facilities. Significant locations of operations refer to our owned manufacturing facilities located in the United States.
In a couple of instances there are slightly different reported numbers in the Sustainability Data section than in other sections of the report. It is due to rounding and a difference is de minimums.
• Indicates data was not yet calculated or available.
Sustainability Data Footnotes: [1] Data presented here is for our significant locations of operations, which represents approximately 91.1% of our total number of employees in calendar year 2021.
[2] Data includes Durham, NC, RTP, NC, Morgan Hill, CA, and Marcy, NY. Not all training classes are tracked in our systems, so those classes will not be represented in this data.
[3] Data presented here is for our significant locations of operations and our smaller United States locations, which represents approximately 95% of our total number of 2020 employees.
[4] Recordable Work-Related Injury-Illness is a work-related injury or ill health that results in any of the following: death, days away from work, restricted work or transfer to another job, medical treatment beyond first aid, or loss of consciousness; or significant injury or ill health diagnosed by a physician or other licensed healthcare professional, even if it does not result in death, days away from work, restricted work or job transfer, medical treatment beyond first aid, or loss of consciousness.
[5] Injury-Illness rates are calculated using 200,000 hours worked (Rate = cases/total hours worked * 200,000).
[6] High-Consequence Recordable Work-Related Injury-Illness is a work-related injury or ill health that results in an injury from which the worker cannot, does not, or is not expected to recover fully to pre-injury health status within six months.
[7] Contract Employee is any worker who is not a Wolfspeed employee but whose manager is and whose work and workplace may or may not be controlled by Wolfspeed.
[8] The values reported represent what our products sold will save over their estimated lifetimes. Energy usage and GHG emissions from our products were compared to their less efficient alternative products to derive energy use savings. Our Power products, made from Silicon Carbide, were compared to similar products made from silicon. Our Radio Frequency products, made from Silicon Carbide, were compared to similar products made from either silicon or gallium-arsenide.
[9] Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) are based on the United States EPA list of HAP. Air pollutants are classified as toxic air pollutants per the regulations applicable at each facility.
[10] For data prior to 2020: All our global manufacturing facilities were assessed for water stress using the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. Overall Water Risk identifies regions that have a higher exposure to waterrelated risks and represents an aggregated measure of all indicators from the individual water risk categories of Physical Risk Quantity, Physical Risk Quality, and Regulatory & Reputational Risk: - Low water stress indicates the facility(ies) scored 0 to 1 out of 5 for Overall Water Risk.
- Low to medium water stress indicates the facility(ies) scored 1 to 2 out of 5 for Overall Water Risk.
- Medium to high water stress indicates the facility(ies) scored 2 to 3 out of 5 for Overall Water Risk.
- High water stress indicates the facility(ies) scored 3 to 4 out of 5 for Overall Water Risk.
- Extremely high water stress indicates the facility(ies) scored 4 to 5 out of 5 for Overall Water Risk.
For 2020 and 2021 data: All our global facilities were assessed for water stress using the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. We consider areas with water stress to be those locations with the risk category “High (40-80%)” or “Extremely High (>80%)” for baseline water stress: - Low water stress indicates the facility(ies) scored <10% for Water Stress.
- Low to medium water stress indicates the facility(ies) scored 10-20% for Water Stress.
- Medium to high water stress indicates the facility(ies) scored 20-40% for Water Stress.
- High water stress indicates the facility(ies) scored 40-80% for Water Stress.
- Extremely high water stress indicates the facility(ies) scored >80% for Water Stress.
SUSTAINABILITY DATA. 
Sustainability Data General Notes


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 150. 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT LIMITED ASSURANCE. 
Independent Assurance Statement to Wolfspeed Inc.

Introduction & Objectives: Trinity Consultants, Inc. (Trinity) was engaged by Wolfspeed Inc. (Wolfspeed) to provide independent assurance for specified calendar year (CY) 2021 environmental, health and safety (EHS) data presented in the Wolfspeed Sustainability Report 2022. The overall objective of this process was to provide assurance to Wolfspeed’s stakeholders concerning the accuracy, completeness, reliability, and objectivity of the specified EHS information included in the Report. This Assurance Statement applies to the information included within the subject Scope of Work.
Scope of Work: Wolfspeed requested that Trinity perform limited assurance of the following specified EHS performance data for CY 2021 (January 1, 2021, to December 31, 2021) to determine whether they are fairly presented, in all material respects, in a manner consistent with the designated reporting criteria: • Direct (Scope 1) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from stationary and mobile combustion and process sources (360,118 metric tons CO2e) • Indirect, location-based (Scope 2) GHG emissions from purchased electricity (97,512 metric tons CO2e) • Indirect, market-based (Scope 2) GHG emissions from purchased electricity (88,685 metric tons CO2e) • Indirect (Scope 3) emissions resulting from two of the 15 potential Scope 3 categories: fuel-andenergy related activity (43,056 metric tons CO2e) and product use (194.7 million metric tons CO2e) • Energy consumption (411,807 Megawatt Hours) • Total water withdrawal, including third-party water withdrawal and rainwater withdrawal (276 million gallons) • Total waste generated/disposed (12.2 million pounds) • Injury-illness rate (1.3)
The reported data was evaluated against Wolfspeed's internal GHG and sustainability reporting procedures, as well as requirements for reporting GHG emissions data to CDP.
Our procedures assessed the appropriateness and effectiveness of underlying corporate reporting processes, management controls and systems used to develop, compile, analyze and report the specified EHS data.
The boundary of the data included in this assurance is limited to the manufacturing and warehouse facilities, research & development / labs, and administrative offices under Wolfspeed operational control during the subject period. Text, descriptions, interpretations, or other written statements in the Sustainability Report 2022 were not included in the scope of Trinity’s work.
Reporting Criteria: Wolfspeed has developed the data subject to this verification as documented in their corporate Sustainability Data Management Plan. This Plan incorporates specific definitions for each EHS performance indicator and the basis on which these data are compiled, calculated, and reported. External criteria utilized to develop these data included: • The Greenhouse Gas Protocol, A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, and Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. • US EPA 40 CFR Part 98 Mandatory GHG Reporting Rule, Subpart I equations


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 151. 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT LIMITED ASSURANCE • GRI Standards 2016, Global Sustainability Standards Board • IPCC AR4 (100-yr) Global Warming Potentials • U.S. EPA eGRID 2022 (2020 data) • US EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership GHG Emission Factors Hub (2022)
Assurance Standard: Trinity’s work was conducted following our standard assurance methodology and approach for external verification of sustainability data, in part based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or reviews of Historical Financial Information (2012), suitably adapted. Greenhouse gas inventory verification was conducted to address CDP verification requirements, as well.
Responsibilities: Wolfspeed management is solely responsible for the EHS performance data and its presentation in the Sustainability Report 2022. Trinity was not involved in the collection or development of the reported data or development of the 2022 Sustainability Report.
Trinity’s responsibility is to perform an assurance engagement to provide conclusions on the agreed Scope of Work based on the assurance activities performed, consistent with exercising our professional judgement.
Assurance Methodology: Trinity conducted the following activities during this assurance engagement: • Interviewed key staff from Wolfspeed’s corporate headquarters in Durham, NC responsible for Wolfspeed's sustainability program, activities, and management systems for the specified GHG and EHS performance data. • Ensured that Wolfspeed’s scope and boundaries reflected in the reported data are fair and accurate. • Reviewed documentation and interviewed other relevant staff to understand and evaluate the processes, systems and methodologies used to collect, compile, consolidate, analyze, and report data for the specified GHG and EHS performance indicators. • Reviewed Wolfspeed’s corporate GHG Inventory Management Plans and Sustainability Data Management Plan, including suitability of calculations, GWPs, and conversion and emission factors. • Reviewed the corporate consolidation of data for specified EHS performance data and compared it to data submitted from a sample of the individual facilities owned by Wolfspeed. • To meet CDP reporting and verification requirements, verification procedures were applied to more than 70 percent each of the company’s enterprise-wide Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions (both location-based and market-based, as well specified categories of reported Scope 3 emissions representing more than 70% of the Scope 3 profile. • Selected underlying facility source data on a test basis and conducted a desktop review of these sample data to confirm specified site data. • Reviewed the presentation of the above performance data in the Sustainability Report 2022 to ensure consistency with our findings, and to address changes and corrections with Wolfspeed where necessary.
Trinity’s Opinion: Based on Trinity’s verification activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the corporate CY 2021 data for the specified Scope 1, location-based Scope 2, market-based Scope 2, and selected Scope 3 GHG emissions, and EHS performance metrics listed under ‘Scope of Work’ and disclosed in the Wolfspeed Sustainability Report 2022 are not fairly presented, in all material respects, in a manner consistent with the designated reporting criteria.


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 152. 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT LIMITED ASSURANCE. 
Trinity has concluded that Wolfspeed has implemented sufficient processes, systems and controls for the accurate collection and analysis of activity data used to determine the reported data.
Trinity’s Observations: Trinity has provided Wolfspeed with a separate management report. Without affecting the conclusions presented above, we have the following observations: • Wolfspeed leadership has shown a strong commitment to maintaining a quality GHG inventory and EHS data set for Sustainability reporting. This is evidenced by conducting periodic (monthly and annual) reviews of reported data for accuracy and providing adequate resources for data compilation and quantification. • Wolfspeed has established GHG Inventory Management Plans and a Sustainability Data Management Plan to guide the development and reporting of data with a focus on energy, GHG emissions and selected EHS parameters. Wolfspeed continues to demonstrate improvement with these plans.
Limitations: Our work did not include visits or physical inspections of any of Wolfspeed’s operating facilities, other than interaction with staff located at the Durham, NC headquarters.
Trinity’s approach to this verification was not intended to detect all weakness in management controls as described above. The verification was performed on corporate management controls on a test basis. Further, it should be noted that the reliability of GHG and EHS data may be subject to inherent uncertainties, based on the established methods used to measure or calculate the underlying information.
This Assurance Statement is only valid when it is published with the Sustainability Report 2022 to which it refers and disclosed through Wolfspeed’s CY2022 CDP submittal and may only be reproduced in its entirety.
Statement of independence: Trinity is an independent professional services firm that specializes in environmental, health and safety, and sustainability compliance, risk, and performance management. We have developed and maintain a quality management system, certified to ISO 9001:2015. No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with Wolfspeed, its managers, or Directors other than for the purpose of verification of the subject GHG and sustainability data and reporting, or has had any involvement in writing the Report, data collection or validation, or the development or implementation of data systems. This verification has been conducted independently and we believe that there has been no conflict of interest.

Rich Pandullo, MEM, CM. 
Director, Sustainability & EHS Management. 
Trinity Consultants, Inc. Dallas, TX www.trinityconsultants.com. 
July 5, 2022


SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2022 | 153